 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO President Muhammadu Buhari has called on all the presidential aspirants of the ruling All Progressives Congress to be magnanimous in victory bearing in mind that the main challenge the party would face would be at the general elections next year. He called on those that would lose out in the ongoing presidential primary not to leave the party but to support it in defeating the major opposition Peoples Democratic Party. Buhari urged the National Working Committee and other officials of the party to allow fair play and provide level playing field for all aspirants. According to him, “I congratulate all the winners and urge you to be magnanimous in victory, particularly towards your fellow aspirants who conceded to you. In every competitive event, there are bound to be winners and runner ups. I urge you to maintain the spirit of sportsmanship and support the party for the challenges ahead. “I enjoin you all to be fair to all and create a level playing field for all aspirants in the exercise. Please, follow due process. I call on officials and delegates to abide by all extant laws, rules and regulations of the party. It is best chance of securing victory for our party ahead of the election. “We need to keep a united front for the party. It’s reason why executive committee has extended it’s powers in the NWC in compliance with the party constitution. I want to assure you, chairman and NWC members of my support. Don’t hesitate to call on me for any help towards the victory that we speak. “Let’s work collectively in the interest of our great party and country. Fellow delegates, men, women, youths. Lets remember the situation we inherited. “Problems were left unattended or ignored, infrastructure left to decay. Internationally, we were despised but APC government has changed all that. Rehabilitation of infrastructure has taken place on a large scale. Our response to corona virus is second to none. We have implemented reforms. We are now respected in Africa and across the world. We now have true leadership, not just winning elections next year but continue on this landmark. “We should not allow the PDP to draw the country backward.” 