Highest price increase in 12 months  BY BAMIDELE FAMOOFO Headline inflation in Nigeria has been tipped to rise by 0.9 percent from 16.82 percent in April to 17.72 percent in May. This will be the 4th consecutive monthly increase and the highest inflation rate in almost 12 months. Financial Derivatives Company Limited, in its Economic Bulletin for June, said a noticeable trend during the survey is that commodity prices are increasing at a faster pace for food items than in the non-food basket, reflecting the combined effects of seasonality, output shocks and war induced global supply chain disruptions. According to the report, flour and diesel, which are major cost components in the baking of bread, account for 70 percent and 15 percent of the total costs. The price of flour and diesel spiked by 76.7 percent and 209.37 percent to N26, 500/bag and N750/litre respectively in the last year. “This is likely to push upwards the price of a loaf of bread from N600 two months ago to N900. In spite of the price surge, wages have remained static or even declined in real terms. Consequently, price resistance of consumers is increasing and many are switching to affordable substitutes. In some cases, as is empirically evident, we have noticed a drop in the quantity of goods demanded. Since price inflation is not a Nigeria specific phenomenon, there are indications that the price spiral is not likely to be short-lived. All inflation sub-indices are expected to move in tandem with headline inflation. Month-on-month to rise marginally by 0.03% to 1.79% (23.77% annualized), food up 0.48% to 18.8% and core inflation to increase by 0.17% to 14.35%,” FDC disclosed. In line with global and regional trends, the Nigerian MPC took a hawkish stance at its May meeting, raising the monetary policy rate by 150bps to 13%p.a. This is aimed at taming inflation which has remained stubbornly high. While an increase in interest rate is intended to reduce market liquidity and taper inflationary pressure, Nigeria’s inflation stoking factors appear to be more structural and cost-push. Monetary policies are usually less effective in addressing supply-induced inflationary pressure. Hence, inflationary pressures could persist if monetary tightening is not complemented by both structural reforms and fiscal policy responses. Despite the global monetary policy tightening, it appears that inflation expectations are more to the upside. Janet Yellen, the U.S secretary general expects inflation to remain elevated for a longer period of time. She expects average inflation in 2022 to be higher than the projected 4.7 percent. Spiraling inflation amid slowing growth is increasing the risk of stagflation. The World Bank lowered its global GDP growth forecast by 1.2 percent to 2.9 percent from its January projection of 4.1 percent. The multilateral agency also revised downwards its US GDP growth projection to 2.5% from 3.7 percent in January. The Nigerian economy is now at the verge of a major food crisis as killings and kidnappings become the order of the day. The most recent attack in Ondo State has not only left the state in dismay but also signals a major food, revenue and foreign exchange crisis. Ondo State is the largest producer of cocoa in Nigeria and cocoa is the country’s largest non-oil export commodity. It accounted for 1.02 percent of total export earnings in Q1’22. Cocoa mid-crop harvest is usually from April to June. With insecurity on the rise, farmers could be cautious of going to the farm, resulting in lower harvest and ultimately reduced exports. This has significant implications for government revenue and foreign exchange earnings. More so, it points to a potential spike in the prices of cocoa bye-products. The prolonged Russian-Ukraine war is taking a toll on African economies. This is because the continent is still heavily dependent on food imports (especially wheat) despite its huge resource endowment. Wheat accounts for approximately 50% of Africa’s trade with Ukraine and 90% of the continent’s trade with Russia. The spike in the price of wheat and energy commodities is stoking inflationary pressures. Of the SSA countries under our review, three recorded high inflation rates in the month of May. The most recent is the Ghanaian inflation, which rose to an 18-year high of 27.6%. Like most advanced economies, African Central banks are beginning to adopt a hawkish monetary policy stance in containing inflation. Ghana raised its policy rate by 200bps to 19%pa, the second consecutive rate hike in 2022. The South African Reserve bank also increased its benchmark interest rate by 50bps (highest increase since 2016) and signaled more rate hikes in 2022. Nigeria was not left out as the MPC decided to increase the MPR by 150bps, the first time in 70 months. 