 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A coalition of Islamic scholars and organizations on Sunday protested against rampant cases of ritual killings in Iwo land, Osun State and alleged labeling of their clerics popularly known as Alfas as ritualists. They argued that not everyone who has a long beard or wears trousers that do not touch the ankle of the legs is an Alfa. They stressed the need for necessary inquiries to be made before one could be identified as Alfa adding that many who had been arrested in connection with ritual killing may not be real Muslim clerics (Alfas). Armed with placards of different inscriptions condemning the growing rate of ritual killing in Iwo land, the demonstrators called on the government at all levels to fish out and prosecute any perpetrators found. They warned that Sharia punishment might be meted out on anyone caught in the act of ritual killing. The protesting Muslims, who adorned themselves in white clothes, are members of groups such as NASFAT, Salaf, Taqomunu, and Quwwatulahi Haq among others in Iwoland. They protested and marched through popular areas in the town. Decrying the ugly menace, Shafi’i Abdulazeez Bello, Ameer Ansrul-Huda Islamic Organization, said that people who indulge in killing and trading on human parts are not to be regarded as Muslims because, according to him, real Muslims do not kill. He said, “This is our collective stand. If we know or see anyone who engages in killing humans, buying or selling human parts, they are not to be regarded as Muslims because the law of Islam says we must not kill anyone. God himself frowns at killers and He said whoever dies as a killer is doomed for hell.” Speaking, Yunus Husaefat Al-Mukasif, Chief Imam, Central Mosque, Olota, said, “we are out to protest peacefully on one of the acts that make God angry and that is ritual killing. “We are also aware that if these ritual killers are apprehended, they will say Alfas are among them. That is not entirely true. “Every individual that wears cap, keep beards and maybe wear trousers below the ankle is called an Alfa. Most of these so-called do not have in-depth Islamic education. “There is a dire need for parents to inculcate Islamic education on their children. Prophet Muhammad said train your children and it will benefit you.” For Bilamin Akanbi, Imam Ratibi Iwoland, “We Muslims in Iwoland come out en mass to make our stand known, which is against ritual killing they label Iwo Alfas of. We want an end to it. Iwo is a revered town for Islam and must be so. “Islam is against it (ritual killing). Sharia shall be applicable to any perpetrator caught.” Sheikh Tajudeen Bilal, Nasrul-lahi-li Fathi Society of Nigeria Missioner, Iwoland also frowned at ritual killing saying, “this peaceful protest is to frown at ritual killing. This has become rampant among the wolves in sheep skin, whom people are calling Alfas. They are not true Muslims. Because Al-Qur’an has made us to know that every form of killing is a sin. It also made us to know that whoever kills a soul, it is as if he kills the whole world. “When these people are apprehended, they will say ‘they are Alfas’ whereas they are not. They are bad people who have a covenant with the devil,” he added. 