 BY BAMIDELE FAMOOFO African Export Import Bank has disclosed that it disbursed a sum of $300 million Intra-African Investment Financing Facility to Titan Trust Bank to support its acquisition of a majority stake in Union Bank Plc, Nigeria. Benedict Oramah, President of Afreximbank who made the disclosure in a statement said the deal will enhance the competitive dynamics of the Nigerian banking sector, while maintaining confidence in the country’s financial services and broader financial stability. “The recently disbursed financing complemented the funds required for the acquisition. Afreximbank’s financial support enables TTB to secure the acquisition of a well-capitalised bank with an extensive network, enabling the entity to better serve vital economic activities of the public sector, companies, and small and medium-sized enterprises,” the bank noted. A member of the Tropical General Investment Group – a pan-African group with diversified investments across seven African countries in various industries and a large network of origination, distribution, and supply chain hubs, TTB will leverage the acquisition of UBN to enhance its capacity to capitalize on the unparalleled opportunities presented by the African Continental Free Trade Area. Afreximbank pledged to continue to support the new merged entity in trade finance to promote intra- and extra-African trade through its broad range of programmes and initiatives, including the Afreximbank Trade Facilitation Programmes and AfPAY, the Bank’s international payment services. The development impact of the acquisition is immense as TTB will leverage the merged entity to provide financing of about $3 billion over the medium term of which over $600 million will directly support intra-regional trade finance. Oramah, emphasized the Bank’s commitment to strengthening the position of indigenous financial institutions, thereby increasing Africa’s control over its own financial markets and creating greater economic resilience for the continent. “As international capital retreats from Africa, we must redouble our efforts to build an effective and resilient financial services sector on the continent, committed to intra-African trade and investments and the development of regional value chains. Afreximbank is confident that the transaction will engender confidence in the Nigerian financial system, attract additional capital investments and support the financial inclusion of small-scale enterprises, women-led businesses, youth enterprises and start-ups who are critical to the successful implementation of the AfCFTA,” he explained. 