 The apex association in Owo kingdom, Owo Is One Association, has condemned last Sunday’s attack on the Catholic Church situated at Owaluwa which killed scores of people and rendered many injured. The association, through its National Co-ordinator, Akinboro Aruwajoye said in a statement made available to the press on Monday, that the ugly incident came as a shock to all the indigenes of the ancient city of Owo, which has been known to be a peaceful community from time immemorial. According to Aruwajoye, the entire executive and members of  Owo Is One Association spread across the world is “in grief for the sad loss that occurred in our homeland. This is seriously a sad mood that calls for a very sober reflection. “We sympathise with our paramount ruler, His Imperial Majesty,  Oba (Dr) Ajibade Gbadegeshin Ogunoye III, Olowo of Owo kingdom, the families of the bereaved and the Catholic community, and pray to Almighty God to comfort each and everyone of us. We pray that the Almighty God should heal the wounded and the injured. “We don’t have any other place we can call home but Owo, our native home. “God Almighty, we pray to you that you come to our aid and put a divine stop to all this incessant killings in Owo. “We pray for peace to reign in Owo, God should deliver us and protect our souls from every calamity of this world in Jesus name.” To the Head of Media of Owo is One Association, Olatunbosun Oladimeji, the carnage in the wake of the evil attacks on a place of worship like the Catholic Church showed how devilish some people might be, adding that only God can repay those behind the attacks. While condoling with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, who is also a bonafide son of Owo, Oladimeji urged the authorities to leave nothing to chance in order to ensure that the perpetrators of the attacks are brought to justice. “Our government has the capability and the capacity to go after these devils. Our people should not only remain calm and be peaceful, but continue to pray for God to take control of our homeland,” Oladimeji said. 