 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A group of chieftains and members of the All Progressives Congress in Osun State who are loyal to the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, have debunked insinuation that it was working against the success of the party at the forthcoming governorship election in the state. The caucus, The Osun Progressives, also restated its decision to stay put in the party, saying it “would not yield a space to the fairweather politicians who currently held the party by the jugular.” TOP, at its stakeholders meeting held on Thursday at Oranmiyan House, Osogbo, denounced the rumour making the rounds that the caucus was forging a working relationship with different parties ahead of the July 16 poll. The group disowned any individual or group using its name or that of its patron, Aregbesola, to negotiate, noting that the caucus would not stoop low to engage in contractual politics. Chairman of the caucus,  Rev.  Lowo Adebiyi, in a press statement, said anybody who is holding discussions with or negotiating with other political parties is doing is at his own risk. Adebiyi reiterated TOP’s focus of reclaiming the party from the current cesspool of abyss. He urged members of the group all over the state to remain steadfast and resilient in the pursuit of the noble goal. He said, “At least, they should be proud of themselves for the mismanagement of the primary elections into the state and national assemblies and be convinced that our position is rational, reasonable and sacrosanct. “The disgraceful protests that followed the exercises and the inability to declare results till now is a vindication of our position that Osun APC is in a mess. “We will always be proud of our inheritance in progressives politics hallmarked by life more abundant for the generality of people of Osun. “The Osun Progressives once again called the attention of the National Chairman of the APC,  Senator Adamu Abdullahi to the degeneration of affairs in Osun APC and stressed the need to put an end to it before it is too late.” The group congratulated Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his emergence as the APC presidential candidate for the 2023 general elections, just as he felicitated with the party and its national executives for the success of the special convention. 