 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The suffering and constant begging for alms of Mr. Aniobi John, a retired public school teacher in Iwara, Atakunmosa West Local Government Area of Osun State may soon come to an end as he has received a bond certificate of N8.3million from the state government. John, who is physically impaired had taken to begging for alms on the streets of the state for survival. The blind retiree, who was being led  by a teenage girl to beg for alms, had bemoaned the non-payment of his pension by the state government. As empathic passersby and traders were giving him money, the man was narrating his ordeal of how he had been denied of his entitlements by the state government in a viral video, adding that he couldn’t have resorted to begging for survival if not for his mysterious blindness. He had said, “I wouldn’t have come out to beg for alms if I was seeing with my eyes. I came out because of my blindness and hunger, please, have mercy upon me and help me. “I worked for 35 years as a teacher in Iwara and it’s this same Iwara that I was struck with blindness. I worked for eight years in Iwara and after retirement, I was denied of my entitlements. “I contributed over two million naira while in active service but till date, I have not received a dime. Please, help me, God will help you too. I wouldn’t have come out to beg if I was seeing,” he narrated in emotion-laden voice. But, according to a statement issued on Saturday by Ismail Omipidan, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Gboyega Oyetola, John was recently thrown into jubilation after he received a bond certificate of N8.3million, alongside other benefiting retirees in the state. The statement further disclosed that while John was fielding questions from journalists shortly after he received his bond certificate, he described the gesture as the best thing that has ever happened to him, saying Oyetola has rekindled his dashed hope. It noted that he was among 162 retirees that benefitted from the N1.156b bond certificates presented to a fresh set of pensioners by the state government. The statement added that the benefitting retirees were primary school teachers, local government staff and those in the core civil service, parastatals and state-owned tertiary institutions. It noted that the retiree, who retired in the year 2016 after he had served the state meritoriously for 35 years, burst into the tears of joy for being favourably considered by the present administration. The statement quoted the retiree as saying that, “this is a true manifestation of a prayer point for one to receive his dues by one’s hand. It is like a dream to me because this is a lost hope that has just been rekindled after waiting hopelessly for several years. “I retired from active service in 2016 as a school teacher after I had served for 35 years. I retired at level 14 step 11, and since my retirement, I have been facing hell due to the inability of government to pay my entitlements. “Though I am under the Contributory Pension Scheme, CPS, since I retired, it hasn’t been my turn until today that I received my bond certificate totalling N8.361, 306. “I am sincerely thankful to Governor Oyetola for making this a reality for me, most importantly when I am still alive and healthy. It is indeed a demonstration of genuine leadership and passion for the welfare of workers. “Though it may take long before this is coming my way, I am fully aware that the current administration has not failed for once in its resolve to advance the cause, welfare and anything pertaining to workers’ welfare and general well-being in the State. “I want to implore the Governor not to relent in his efforts to maintain the pace of development and be more steady on the lane. People are watching and they know what he has been doing and how he has been struggling so hard to make things work in spite the economic reality. “As I return all glory to God, so also I express my deepest gratitude to the State Government for making this to happen during my lifetime and I appeal to the Governor to look into others so that they too can have their entitlements.” 