Atiku’s detractors not relenting Factors likely to shape polls as INEC deadline ends Friday  BY BRIGHT JACOB With its reminder to political parties about the end of all party primaries for the 2023 general election and the marching order for them (parties) to submit the list of their candidates, Presidential, Vice Presidential, Senatorial and House of Representatives, latest by 6pm on Friday June 17, the Independent National Electoral Commission may have drawn the battle lines between the presidential candidates of the various political parties. And with those statements from the electoral umpires, the respective flag-bearers now have four days to name their prospective running mates. In this report, The Point presents, in no particular order or preference, a rundown of some of the contestants jostling for the highest political office in the land. ATIKU ABUBAKAR (PDP) The Waziri Adamawa, Atiku Abubakar, 75, needs no introduction in Nigeria’s saturated political landscape. He is a Master’s degree holder aptly described as the proverbial cat with nine lives. A former governor of Adamawa State and erstwhile Vice President of the federation, Atiku is Nigeria’s version of America’s George Washington. Having contested in five previous presidential elections, albeit unsuccessfully, political observers are divided over the fate of Atiku in the 2023 general election. While some insist it will be the pinnacle of his political career, others think it will be his swansong. A smooth operator, he immediately paid courtesy calls on the other aspirants who contested against him during the presidential primary of the People’s Democratic Party, a move even naysayers applauded. To his opponents, he is one formidable opponent whose wheels of progress must be clogged as he continues his torturous, yet determined and focused march into Nigeria’s seat of power, the Aso Rock Villa, Abuja. He is admired by Nigeria’s teeming youth population because of his presence on social media and his knack for commenting on boiling national issues. His detractors have not relented. He was accused of going AWOL after he lost to President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 presidential election, and was “celebrated” as the sojourner in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, who returned home when it was election season. Atiku’s pedigree as a business man is mouthwatering. He is recognised for being an astute businessman, and his praise singers believe he can translate his success in the corporate world into Nigeria’s floundering anatomy, and as well revive its comatose economy, all thanks to the wealth of experience he would bring to bear in his capacity as head of Nigeria’s economic team during Obasanjo’s administration. Love him or hate him, this charismatic political juggernaut whose nationality became the subject of litigation in the court of law would enter the annals of Nigeria’s history as a dogged fighter who took patriotism to a whole new level. BOLA AHMED TINUBU (APC) Oppose this political gladiator at your own detriment, as he takes no prisoners after any political conquest. The former Governor of Lagos State accomplishes every political algorithm set before him with masterful dexterity, no wonder his loyalists view him as a democrat par excellence. Bugged by controversies surrounding his age and the academic certificate he brandishes, die-hard supporters of the mercurial, political heavyweight have insisted that what matters most is what he brings to the table after he takes over from president Buhari, come May 29, 2023. Referred to as the Jagaban, a traditional title bestowed on him by Haliru Dantoro Kitoro III, a former Emir of the Borgu Kingdom in Niger State, former governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode, and Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, should have understood better not to treat the political structure and influence of the former NADECO member-in-exile with kid gloves. Tinubu, 70, is a trained Accountant and former Mobil Oil executive. He left no one in doubt when he declared his intention to vie for the highest political office in the land. According to him, that was his lifelong ambition. During his legendary outburst in Abeokuta, Ogun State, when his campaign train seemed to be lolling and losing steam, Tinubu declared that he installed Buhari as president, and it was his (Tinubu) turn to lead. He famously said in Yoruba, “Emi lo kan,” a phrase which has birthed a new political movement. Body-shamed on multiple occasions and described as ailing, Tinubu defied the odds, and overwhelmed his opponents in a one-sided presidential primary. He beat 13 other candidates, polling 1,271 votes, with Rotimi Amaechi coming in at a distant second with 316 votes. Last year, Tinubu spent three months in a United Kingdom hospital where he received treatment for a knee injury, and though there are insinuations about another underlying illness he is battling with, Nigerians may have decided to keep their fingers crossed, even as they continue to beam the searchlight on his health. Allegations of corruption still remain an albatross around Tinubu’s neck. Though he denied them, the images of bullion vans which drove into his expansive compound in Ikoyi, on the eve of an election, still evokes unsavory commentary about vote-buying leveled against him. The “lion of Bourdillon,” it remains to be seen whether Tinubu’s strategy to use his exploits as Lagos State Governor to convince party delegates to vote for him would yield the same dividend with Nigerians. Though there are many laudable projects Tinubu pioneered during his time as a governor between 1999 and 2007, the unflattering allegation of his romance with the state’s finances years after he left office still sticks out like a sore thumb. PETER GREGORY OBI (LP) Without batting an eyelid, it is safe to say that this Anambra son was destined to be a presidential aspirant in the 2023 general election. A thoroughbred from Onitsha in Anambra State, Peter Obi, 60, is an underdog, at least in comparison to political colossuses in the mold of Atiku Abubakar and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. With a track record of lofty educational attainment and career achievements able to make the knees of the uninitiated to buckle, Obi can easily be crowned as the most educated and widely read among the aspirants. Serving as the youngest board chairperson ever appointed by Fidelity Bank, Obi has always been a trailblazer who was willing to jettison his personal ambition for the greater good of his people. His political career has been chequered. After he left his job as a career banker, he had three stints as the Governor of Anambra State. He was impeached once, but rose through the ashes of that impeachment to become one of Ndi Anambra’s favourite sons. A politician who started off in the All Progressives Grand Alliance when he contested as governor, Obi’s meritorious service in office would propel former President Goodluck Jonathan of the People’s Democratic Party, to appoint him as the Chairman of the Nigerian Security and Exchange Commission. Though he threw his hat in the ring to contest the presidential primary under the PDP, he would later resign his membership of the party. In a letter addressed to the National Chairman of the PDP, Obi talked about “recent developments within our party” which made it practically impossible for him to continue to participate and make constructive contributions to nation-building efforts. He also said he didn’t want to be part of “money politics” and “gang up”. His exit was described as a huge loss for the PDP. In 2021, Obi’s name was mentioned among influential politicians and businesspersons who allegedly operated offshore accounts in the leaked Pandora Papers and was accused of failing to declare such to the Code of Conduct Bureau. However, to this day, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has failed to pin any wrongdoing on him, and their investigations may have drawn a blank. Many political theories postulate that Obi would run into a brick wall because he doesn’t have the political structure to navigate him through Nigeria’s unfavourable political terrain, others have mocked him for being a social media aspirant, and forecasted his horde of internet supporters would desert him when it matters most. Obi has also been accused of pitching his tent with the Labour Party, a political party his ideologies on labour matters does not align with. RABIU MUSA KWANKWASO (NNPP) Time after time again, this prominent son of Kano has leveraged on his popularity and cult following to hold grassroots politics in Kano State in his orbit of influence. Kwankwaso, 65, is a beacon to the downtrodden in the state, and his emergence as a presidential aspirant may ruffle the political order in the North. His kwankwasiyya movement is also a force to be reckoned with, spreading like wildfire and solidifying its reputation as one that caters for the poor and indigent, its scope of outreach may soon be extending its tentacles to every nook and cranny of Nigeria. Kwankwanso emerged as the national leader of the newly minted New Nigeria People’s Party in March 2022. The party held its presidential primary on June 8, at the velodrome of the MKO Abiola Stadium in Abuja, and is suggested to be a Third Force political party. In tandem with political calculations, Kwankwaso emerged victorious at the primary where he was the sole presidential aspirant. The party’s delegates unanimously decided to pick him through a voice vote. On the chances of his party at the polls and becoming the new “landlord” of Aso Rock villa, kwankwaso reminded those who cared to listen that he had the perfect recipe to win elections. He put the doubting Thomas on notice, tutoring them how in 30 years, he was able to win 13 elections out of 16. The loss of the APC and PDP in Kano State is the gain of the NNPP, whose political tsunami is sweeping through Kano. Already, some former members of the APC in the State House of Assembly have decamped to the NNPP, ensuring NNPP became the main opposition party in the state, and Kano became the launching pad for Kwankwaso’s dream of a new Nigeria. Whether Kwankwaso’s flurry in Kano can tilt the political equilibrium of the Nigerian paradigm is a topic for another day. With all the fanfare he enjoys in the North, he may be in for a rude awakening in the South, which could be a different kettle of fish because the politician is not a household name there. That said, Kwankwaso would not be a pushover. His wealth of experience both as a seasoned engineer and two-term governor of Kano State set him apart from the pack, and with Nigeria still grappling with insecurity, his portfolio as a former Minister of Defense may be the key for toppling kidnappers, bandits and Boko Haram/ISWAP onslaught. PETER UMEADI (APGA) A Chief Judge Emeritus from Anaocha in Anambra State, Peter Umeadi has paid his dues in the legal profession. After he resigned in March 2019, the Professor of Law at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, said his foray into politics was to “keep his brain alive.” He was the sole presidential candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance when the party held its National Convention in Abuja and was declared winner through a voice vote. Having never contested any elective post, he will undergo a baptism of fire when he squares off against other political bigwigs in the 2023 general election. An advocate of Igbo presidency, the emergence of Fulani and Yoruba candidates from the PDP and APC respectively, may make Umeadi’s task of becoming the Commander-in-Chief a daunting one. KOLAWOLE ABDUL-LATEEF ABIOLA (PRP) He is the eldest son of the late MKO Abiola, presumed winner of the June 12, 1993, presidential election. Kola Abiola, 59, is a businessman. His first dalliance with politics was not so eventful. In his second coming, he chose the People’s Redemption Party to actualise his presidential ambition. According to him, the party represented everything right about Nigeria. He became the flag bearer of the party after he won with a landslide, garnering 2,097 votes, with his closest rival polling 813 votes. Critics have said he wants to ride on the wings of his father’s political heritage to coast into Aso Rock. He consistently denies that. ADEWOLE ADEBAYO (SDP) An accomplished lawyer and founder of KAFTAN Television, Adebayo was born in Ondo State 50 years ago. His coming to political limelight seems to be the answered prayer of Nigerians for a vibrant and resourceful leader. He has youth on his side, too. Pitching his tent with the Social Democratic Party, Adebayo is a philanthropist to the core. He sponsors dozens of students in tertiary institutions so that they can pursue their dreams. After emerging as his party’s standard bearer, he said it was the turn of the Nigerian masses to take over power. Time will tell whether the masses will heed his clarion call. OMOYELE SOWORE (AAC) The human rights activist is the founder and publisher of Sahara Reporters. After criticising several governments for their bungling of the economy, worsening security situation and other major issues of governance, Sowore decided it was time he vied for the office of the president to correct the ills he actively fought against. He made the Africa Action Congress his home, and contested on its platform in the 2019 general election, where he came out sixth. Prior to becoming the presidential candidate of his party for the 2023 general election, Sowore doubled as the chairman of the party. Though the party defended his position as both chairman and its presidential candidate last month, Sowore would later step down, saying the constitution does not allow for such. Mastermind of the #RevolutionNow protest, he has had several run-ins with the police, and his treasonable felony case is still pending in court. CHRISTOPHER IMUMOLEN (AP) Christopher Imumolen is the presidential candidate of the Accord Party for the general election in 2023. He was declared the winner of the party’s ticket at the presidential primary election held in Abuja. The 39-year-old presidential candidate won the primary by voice vote having emerged as the sole aspirant for the party’s ticket after his co-contenders had stepped down. Imumolen is an indigene of Esan West, Ekpoma in Edo State. He started his work career as a Plant Engineer at BOC Gases Nigeria Plc in February 2005. He possesses two PhD degrees in Engineering Research and Educational Management. YABAGI SANI (ADP) The Chairman of the Inter-party Advisory Committee and National Chairman of the Action Democratic Party, Yabagi Sani, is the presidential candidate of the party. He was declared as the ADP presidential standard-bearer at the Special National Convention of the party on Tuesday, May 31, 2022, in Abuja. The Chairman, ADP electoral panel, Tasiru Abdulrahman, said that Sani was chosen by consensus. He said that Sani was chosen after he was screened and confirmed to have met all necessary requirements for the 2023 presidential election. Sani appreciated the party for giving him the presidential ticket for the 2023 general election. He promised to live up to expectations by upholding the party’s mandate and adhering to its rules in the 2023 poll. OKWUDILI NWA-ANYAJIKE (NRM) Mazi Okwudili Mwa-Anyajike, is the presidential candidate of National Rescue Movement for the 2023 election. He emerged as a candidate at NRM 2022 Special Convection which was held in Abuja. In a keenly contested election by nine presidential aspirants of the movement, Okwudili pulled 184 votes out of over 200 accredited votes with about 300 delegates. MALIK ADO-IBRAHIM (YPP) Malik Ado-Ibrahim is the 2023 presidential candidate of the Young Progressives Party. He polled 66 votes to beat his rival, Ruby Isaac-Chinenye at the party’s presidential primary in Abuja. In his acceptance speech, he promised to address the country’s security challenges, create jobs and revamp the economy if elected to office in 2023. “We have minds that are young,” Ado-Ibrahim said. “We have people in the North that are doing amazing things in agriculture. I would champion your cause. We will feed Nigeria from the North, we will power Nigeria with the sun from the North, and we will bring it down to the South, to give light to our brothers. “I promise you, I can do that, I am doing it. We are going to show you everything that Nigeria is about. We will show you how to be progressive, how to use technology to make this country better. “I assure you, we have the capacity, the vision for that,” he promised. DUMEBI KACHIKWU (ADC) The founder of Roots Television Nigeria, Dumebi Kachikwu, won the presidential primary election of the African Democratic Congress held in Abeokuta, Ogun State. Kachikwu scored 978 votes to defeat a one-time Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Kingsley Moghalu, who came second in the election with 589 votes. Other aspirants in the contest included a person with special needs, Chike Okogwu, who stepped down before the primary election; Chukwuka Monye, scored 339 votes, while Chichi Ojei polled 72 votes, among others. At the commencement of the primary election held within the premises of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, 2,040 delegates were accredited. DAN NWANYANWU (ZLP) The National Chairman of Zenith Labour Party, Dan Nwanyanwu emerged as the presidential candidate of the party for the 2023 presidential election.
The party has also changed its name from ZLP to Zenith Progressives Alliance. SUNDAY ADENUGA (BP) A business man from Ogun State, South West Nigeria, Sunday Adenuga has clinched the presidential ticket of Boot Party for the 2023 general election. Declaring the result in Abuja on June 7, 2022, the party’s primaries committee chairman and the party electoral umpire, Usman Mustapher Turaki, said the process was the first of its kind in Nigeria. He said citizens were allowed to cast their votes from all over the country to decide who they want and not some individual deciding for the general interest of the people. He said Adenuga polled 292 votes against Evelyn Ohevire who polled 18 votes, and therefore announced Adenuga the winner and presidential candidate and flag bearer of the party. HAMZA AL MUSTAPHA (AA) Hamza Al-Mustapha, a former aide to the late Sani Abacha, secured the presidential ticket of the Action Alliance to participate in the 2023 general election. Al-Mustapha won the election with a total of 506 votes, defeating Samson Odupitan, his only opponent. He was declared the party’s flag bearer at the AA presidential primary held on Thursday in Abuja. Tunde Anifowose and Felix Osakwe — withdrew from the presidential race for Al-Mustapha. A total of 972 delegates were expected to participate in the exercise, but 851 delegates were accredited and 721 votes were cast. Speaking of his victory at the primary, Al-Mustapha thanked the party’s electoral committee for the successful conduct of the exercise. “From all indications, this was a very transparent exercise and I commend other aspirants for their efforts to ensure that the party remains united. “I also commend Mr. Odupitan for contesting, because if everybody withdrew, there won’t be victory as we have seen today. “I appreciate all party delegates, supporters, and officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) who have all defied the rain to witness this event. “I promise that our votes cast today would not be in vain and I ask you to please obtain a permanent voter card (PVC), because that is the surest way to be victorious come 2023 general election.” YUSUF MAMMAN DANTALLE (APM) The Allied People’s Movement has also elected its National Chairman, Yusuf Dantalle, as its presidential candidate for the 2023 general election. The party also expelled six suspended National Working Committee members and three state chairmen for gross anti-party activities which it alleged brought the party to ridicule and disrepute. Dantalle, who is the party’s only presidential candidate, was elected by delegates at the party special convention held at its secretariat in Abuja. A statement by Oyedeyi Adebayo, APM National Secretary, said that Dantalle “will now contest the 2023 presidential election with Bola Tinubu (APC), Atiku Abubakar (PDP), Peter Obi (Labour Party) and Chekwas Okorie (APGA).” Those expelled for anti-party activities include former National Treasurer, Rose D.S. Gear, former National Financial Secretary, Nasir Baba and Abubakar Ahmed – National Welfare Officer. Others are, Inyama – Southeast, Felix Idowu- National Youth Leader, Nasir Mohammed Sidi Aliyu – National Publicity Officer, Abram Gyabo- Nasarawa State Chairman, Thomas Akosu – former FCT Chairman and Nuhu Soba, former Kaduna State Chairman. 