 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR Indications have emerged that the Electoral Act 2022 may bounce back to the front burner in the coming days in the National Assembly. The Point learnt that many lawmakers are unhappy over the outcome of the various party primaries in which some of them performed woefully and they are blaming it squarely on some provisions of the Electoral Act. An impeccable source confided in The Point that the outcome of the recent primaries of various parties would surely stir up some kind of legislative activism in the coming days. As many as 178 House of Representatives members and about 29 Senators failed in their bids to pick the tickets of their various parties to enable them to contest in 2023 to return to their present positions. “Many lawmakers are angry. The party primaries did not favour some of them as expected and they are blaming it on the Electoral Act. I can tell you that in the coming days there will be some legislative activism, I assure you. “If you read the tenor of the address of the Senate President today, and even the Speaker of the House, you would know that the lawmakers are not happy. And, being leaders, they have a responsibility to stabilize the system,” the source stated. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, on Tuesday, made clear allusion to the Electoral Act in his welcome address to senators at plenary, deploying high-level diplomacy in what seems to be a mission to pacify the lawmakers. He charged the senators to “remain committed to our political system irrespective of the outcome of the just concluded primaries.” Lawan, hinted that the senate would undertake further amendments to the Electoral Act. According to him, the electoral process in the just concluded primaries has thrown up issues that must be critically looked at by the National Assembly. “Some of us participated in the congresses for their senatorial districts, some of our colleagues went for the governorship of their states, and four of us went for the presidency of our great country. “We have recorded different results from those activities, but as politicians, it is never over until it is over. We should continue to support the political system that we believe in. “Those of our colleagues who have recorded successes, we wish them more successes in the general elections. And those of who have not succeeded as much, we are hopeful that between now and then, the situation may be better. “But on the whole, our commitment to ensuring that this democracy benefits from legislative interventions of the National Assembly should remain our focus. “The electoral process may have thrown up certain issues that the National Assembly could also look at and address, because the Electoral Act itself, even though a good document, is not a perfect document. “So, it needs some refinement from time to time to improve our electoral process.” In the same vein, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, could not hold back his surprise that many serving House of Representatives members failed to scale the primary election hurdles of their various political parties. The Speaker in his welcome remarks at the resumption of plenary on Tuesday, said the delegate system of primary election deprived many of his colleagues of securing their return tickets to the parliament. “The past two months have been dominated by political pursuits across the country as political parties carry out various activities to nominate their candidates for the forthcoming general elections. All of us, members of the House of Representatives, have not been exempt from this process. “Unfortunately, as it is always the case in electoral contests, some of us who sought the nomination of our parties to return to legislature have not gotten it. Others who sought nomination to contest other positions have also fallen short in that quest. “Honourable colleagues, it is rather unfortunate that the process went the way it went. I am bold to say here that the legislature has once again suffered losses. The loss really is not for members who lost, it is a loss to democracy, the institution and to the country. If it means anything, I know and I am aware that many of our members did not lose their primaries because they were rejected by their constituents. Many of our members lost because of the process, the process which we foresaw in the House of Representatives. The delegate system unfortunately is not what a delegate system is supposed to be. “Honourable colleagues, many of our members lost because they were not even given a fair shot. We have good legislators, both here in the chambers and back home, who are probably not coming back because of this same process. When we fought for direct primaries in this house, we knew exactly what we were saying. It pains me very deeply that the process has gone the way it has gone. We will continue to push and continue to fight for our members, for democracy, for the institution and for this country. “Therefore, I enjoin you all to set aside your feelings about recent electoral experiences to focus on serving the mandate we still have. Whereas in the past, the start of the electoral calendar marked the end of governance as a priority, that will not be the case in this 9th Assembly. Our term in office does not end till next year. Until the moment it does, until the last minute of the final hour, we will do the people’s work and serve their interests.” 