 The Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji Campaign Organisation has dismissed a rumour being peddled by mischief makers claiming that the primary won by the All Progressives Congress candidate in Ekiti State has been nullified by a court. The Campaign Organisation said the APC flag bearer, Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji, remains in the race and would win the Saturday’s governorship election with a landslide victory. A statement on Thursday signed by the Director of Media and Publicity of the BAO Campaign Organisation, Taiwo Olatunbosun, described the rumour as “a figment of infantile imagination” of its peddlers urging all eligible voters to go to the polls to vote for the APC flag bearer. The Campaign Organisation which further described the rumour as “a concoction from the desperate camp of jittery opposition in the state” said the purported nullification only exists in the misguides imagination of those peddling it whom it said are already sensing a crushing defeat from the APC candidate on Saturday. It further stated that Ekiti people will not be fooled by any beer parlour rumour as they are ever determined to cast their votes for the APC candidate who is head and shoulders above other contestants on the basis of his competence, experience, pedigree and connection with the grassroots. The statement said: “Ekiti people will not be fooled by any beer parlour rumour of nullification of our party’s primary which produced the most popular candidate, Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji. The rumour only exists in the infantile imagination of its peddlers and should not be accorded any attention. “While it is a fact that some individuals aggrieved with the outcome of the party’s primary which produced our candidate have filed cases as it is normal in any democracy, but none of the cases has gone beyond the preliminary stage. “In fact, all of the cases concerning the primary have been transferred back to Ekiti for hearing. No High Court is sitting on any matter regarding our primary in Abuja as at today let alone nullifying the primary election as alleged by the comedians. “None of the cases about the APC governorship primary conducted in Ekiti is ripe for hearing yet as they have been adjourned till September 2022.The case filed in Ekiti by one of the aspirants has not even been assigned since courts are not sitting at the moment. “The one filed in Abuja was struck out for lack of jurisdiction. Ekiti people are now wiser to know those that are always afraid of participating in an election but rather looking for illegitimate and fraudulent means. “It’s clearly obvious that the opposition camp are jittery of the reality of the eventual failure and defeat confronting them after their shameful outing today in ado Ekiti. The almost empty pavilion exposed the emptiness of the assumed over bloated strength of SDP candidate.” 