 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL Founding national chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, Chekwas Okorie, has returned to the party after dumping the ruling All Progressives Congress. Okorie disclosed this on Wednesday in Enugu at an event attended by members of the National Working Committee of APGA. He said he had officially resigned as a member of the APC and registered as an APGA member in his ward. This is following days of consultations after the APGA NWC led by Edozie Njoku visited him a few days ago and apologized for the injustice meted on him. Speaking at the event, Okorie said APGA had remained the only truly progressive party in Nigeria, stressing that “Nigeria has come to a point where the social contract of political parties with the people need to be interrogated.” Recalling his experiences in APGA, Okorie said, “We struggled for eight years to save the soul of the party but the INEC did a lot of somersaults on APGA matters. “When we left to form the United Progressives Party, UPP, it was with a heavy heart, that was in 2012 but we had no choice. “In 2020, we decided to try our hand with the ruling party, APC, though it was a difficult decision. “At the end of the day, we were not comfortable in APC, there was pressure from everywhere that we should return to APGA. I said to myself that we cannot return from the backyard. “When the Supreme Court affirmed Chief Edozie Njoju as the authentic chairman of APGA, his first point of call was here, and the appeal was strong. “The apology was accepted and I have consulted, and my associates said it’s a good step to take.” He declared that, “I, Chief Chekwas Okorie, with all my associates, have today formally returned to APGA under the leadership of Chief Edozie Njoku. “I will join him in preaching unity and healing of wounds. We will take steps to facilitate this peace, we will take steps to meet Anambra Governor, he needs us and we need him. If PDP and APC overrun him in 2023, he will be in trouble. Njoku earlier in the event, expressed gladness to have led the delegation to welcome Okorie back to the APGA fold, adding that “there are many other people ripped off in Imo State, we have to go looking for them. “I’m so happy we have brought him back to the direction of his vision. The work we have at hand is enormous. “He has told me he is battle ready. I congratulate Chief Chekwas Okorie, he has shown that he is a man and believes in Igbo interest.” 