 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Dr. Olami Felix Adeyemi, a medical doctor who attended to late Sergeant Rauf Fawale, a reportedly battered policeman at the Accident and Emergency Unit of the Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, has revealed how the deceased was discharged untimely against medical advice. Fawale was allegedly attacked by an operative of the Department of State Security, David Olowoporoku, and two other DSS officers near a bar in Osogbo where Badmus was said to have marked her birthday. Adeyemi, who appeared before Chief Magistrate Olusegun Ayilara at a Coroner investigating circumstances surrounding Fawale’s death, said a Police Inspector, Mrs. Medinat Badmus, who brought Fawale to the hospital in the midnight of January 14, 2021 alongside others, signed the discharge against medical advice. The witness informed the court that Fawale was brought into the hospital with head injury and in states of unconsciousness and drunkenness. Adeyemi said that the next morning, Badmus asked that the deceased be discharged. The doctor claimed that he advised against his discharge because of the severity of the injury but Badmus insisted that she wanted to take her colleague to his family. The witness told the court that “The patient (Fawale) came into the hospital in the middle of the night around 1am and a particular lady (Badmus) brought the patient in company of other people and the patient was unconscious as at the time he was brought in. When I asked what happened to the patient, I was told that another person attacked the patient and that the patient was hit on the head. When I saw the patient, I found out that the patient was drunk, he was unconscious and I admitted the patient and I gave him an intravenous fluid to resuscitate him. “I did a preliminary investigation and I said if need be, the patient may need a scan on the head. It was difficult to ascertain if his state of unconsciousness was because of the injury he sustained or the drunkenness. “I was the medical officer that worked at the Accident and Emergency section and I wrote to the surgeons who handle such cases. Later that morning, the nurses came to inform me that they wanted to take the patient away and that a lady came and said she wanted to take the patient away and I said no. I spoke with them and explained to the lady (a police officer), to allow the patient to stay in the hospital. “She insisted. The rule of the hospital is that when a patient’s family insists, they should sign ‘against medical advice form’. I appealed to them but they insisted. “I called the other doctor, and the woman eventually signed ‘against medical advice form’ and took the patient away. Since it’s a head injury, the patient needed to be investigated. She said she knew the family and that the family would be the one to decide on the care of the patient.” Adeyemi added that Fawale was still unconscious when he was taken out of the hospital. After calling all witnesses and taking notes of their testimonies, the coroner adjourned till June 29 for adoption of written addresses. 