 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, has said that the APC was sure to win the 2023 general elections which will be held in a fair and just manner. He made this assertion while receiving the Ambassador of Poland to Nigeria, Joanna Tarnawska in his office. The chairman stated that with the massive support the party enjoyed from over 43 million Nigerians, there was no way the party will lose the 2023 elections. The Polish Ambassador who was visiting the Chairman after the successful special national convention which produced a presidential flagbearer for the party, had earlier congratulated him on his election as chairman. She stated that her country was interested in political developments within Nigeria and will like to see a peaceful transition to another president after the tenure of President Buhari ends next year. She also called for the APC to create opportunities for women and young persons to participate in the political terrain. Ambassador Tarnawska said Poland looks forward to improved bilateral diplomatic relations between both countries but particularly in improved economic relations. She stated that Poland understood and sympathized with the challenges Nigeria was facing especially in the area of security, noting that her country had faced similar challenges in the past. She therefore hoped that the visit will be another layer of constructive relationship between Poland and Nigeria. Adamu, while responding to the comments of Ambassador Tarnawska said that the party was conscious of the effects of developments in Nigeria on other African countries. He noted that the party was therefore prepared to conduct itself at the next elections according to international best practices. He informed the Ambassador that because of the opportunities created by the APC, a woman gubernatorial candidate had emerged from the party in conservative northern Nigeria. Concluding, Chairman Adamu called on Poland and the international community to show more understanding about Nigeria’s challenges and electoral history. He said Nigeria was a developing democratic nation and lessons are being learnt in electoral processes, pledging that the APC will continue to do everything to advance democratic practice in Nigeria. 