 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The Nigeria Baptist Convention has called on the government to arrest and prosecute the attackers of St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State on Sunday. In a press release condemning the incident, and made available to The Point on Monday, the president of the Christian body, Israel Akanji, described the evil act as “rude, shocking, painful, sad and vicarious.” Pandemonium erupted in Owa-Iuwas Street, in Owo, hometown of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, as terrorists killed no fewer than 40 worshippers, including children and women. Reacting to the unfortunate incident, Akanji said the attack was “a visible case of cruel ‘sunset at dawn’ for innocent Nigerians who had gone to respond in worship and celebration of their Creator, Father, Sustainer, Provider and Saviour.” “It was an intentional demonstration of dishonour for the Supreme God, the Creator of mankind and the highest form of disregard for the dignity of humanity. No one was spared in the dastardly calculated evil. Men, women, young, old, children and infants were indiscriminately cut shut of their lives in the carnage and made to swim in their own blood in broad daylight. “It was another eclipse of the already diming light on our nation. While the world is still ruminating and sobbing over the kidnap of passengers of the Abuja-Kaduna train; the mob killing of Deborah Samuel in Sokoto, both in the North West; the recent kidnapping (though now released after the payment of huge ransom) of the Prelate of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, Archbishop Chukwuemeka Uche, in the South East; another disaster has struck in Owo in the South West, to crown the chains of spontaneous dastardly acts in our dear country. “This carnage in Owo, which took place on a sacred day and in a sacred place, is the height of the desecration of a place of worship and disdain for God. It is despicable, unacceptable, regrettable and sad.” The cleric stated that the bloody event is a signal that “there is no part of this country that is safe and that there are intentional designs to engender the collapse of our nation,” but urged everyone to “ensure the discontinuation of this evil trend in the nation.” Urging the government to ensure the immediate arrest and prosecution of the murderers of the worshippers of St. Francis Catholic Church, he also called on the government to provide better security for all places of worship in the country and also ensure the release of those still in the hands of kidnappers and bandits across the country. 