 Alex Iwobi has taken to social media to share his opinion in the aftermath of the Super Eagles back-to-back friendly matches in the United States of America. Reacting to the defeats, the Hale Ender underlined that it’s important the Super Eagles faithful ‘trust the process’, a phrase often echoed by manager Mikel Arteta and Arsenal fans, especially when the team is going through a rough patch. In what was newly-appointed Portuguese football tactician Jose Peseiro’s first game in the Nigeria dugout, the three-time African champions suffered a narrow 2-1 loss to Mexico on May 29. Few days after, the Super Eagles’ were also defeated 1-0 by World Cup-bound Ecuador meaning they have failed woefully to win in five consecutive matches, and the last time that happened was fifty nine years ago, according to respected Nigerian football historian Kunle Solaja. Despite the losses to Mexico and Ecuador, Iwobi was one of the standout players in both games in which he went the distance. Meanwhile, Premier League club Arsenal has reportedly made a transfer decision on talented Nigerian goalkeeper Arthur Okonkwo. The Point gathered that Gunners intend to loan out Okonkwo next season in order for him to get first-team experience. The Hale End Academy graduate was Arsenal’s third choice goalkeeper last season, behind Aaron Ramsdale and Bernd Leno, and was included in Premier League matchday squads seven times. Arsenal are hoping to cash in on Leno as he has entered the last one year of his contract and the potential departure of the Germany international means new signing from New England Revolution Matt Turner could begin next season as back up to Ramsdale. Estonia international glovesman Karl Hein is expected to replace Okonkwo as third choice goalkeeper for the 2022-2023 season subject to the Nigerian completing his loan move. Last season, Okonkwo was alternating between the first team and the U23s, gaining match practice with the development squad in the Premier League 2 while training with the senior squad. The 20-year-old has been on the books of the Emirates outfit for more than a decade. 