 BY OIKONOMIA WITH LEKAN SOTE Austere, or stingy, in the books of Catholic Father Mbaka, if not exactly pristine, Peter Obi, Nigerian youths’ political rave of the moment, is a former Governor of Anambra State. Now, he is the presidential candidate of Labour Party, and regarded by some people as the Apostle of Productive Economy, though some others derisively describe him as practitioner of “Container Economy.” But they are wrong. Contrary to the import orientation of a container economy, Obi’s idea emphasizes engaging the productive, or manufacturing, capabilities of the domestic economy. It’s another way to deemphasize Nigeria’s mono-product, oil-based, economy to favour a diversified economy that runs on agricultural, agro-allied, industrial, service and digital platforms. Yet some even say Obi’s economics is “Bolekaja,” or street smarts, in the order of the highly cerebral Economist and The Guardian Newspaper Columnist, Ashikiwe Adione-Egom of blessed memory. With his submission, Governor Obi, who thinks the Nigerian economy must be run in a manner that will make it more productive, has probably hit Nigeria’s political and economic bulls eye in one fell swoop. Even Kemi Adeosun, former Minister of Finance to President Muhammadu Buhari, once acknowledged that (agricultural and industrial) productivity is the road to the recovery of any economy (like the recessionary and near-comatose economy she superintended). Anyone who has a good knowledge of how an economy works, and has also been involved with running an agricultural or industrial organisation, will readily agree with the thinking of Obi, whose presidential campaign is becoming a mass movement. You must agree with Obi’s argument that the way out of Nigeria’s current poverty and insecurity dilemma is to revive the economy, even though you may not like his politics that is becoming a cross between a political rassemblement of youths, of the #EndSARS strain, those who openly and defiantly reject ruling All Progressives Congress and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party. Though his movement is also looking like an agenda of an ethnic lobby, some kind of “Emi lo kan,”–I am next– subtly cast in nationalism narrative, you cannot fault his thesis which is that what is most important to Nigeria’s politics is that the economy must be productive, and the excessive and profligate spending of, and on, Big Government must be drastically reduced. In his public statements, he promised to transform Nigeria from a consumption economy to a productive economy. He believes this could help create the jobs that will pull Nigerians out of debilitating poverty. He puts it in the following manner: “We want to move Nigeria from consumption to production.” He argues: “We need to invest in our massive landmass (he probably meant to say, agriculture), and grow our economy, like other nations such as Singapore, Vietnam and even Morocco have done with tourism.” There is no doubt that Governor Obi is spot on with this. He emphasizes the importance of education to economic development with the declaration, “The more educated the people (are), the better it is for the economy, which in the long run, helps our development as a nation. You don’t do physical infrastructure before human infrastructure. Human capital is too low in Nigeria.” He thinks, and rightly so, that education is key to pulling people out of poverty through the improvement of Human Developing Indices, which he enumerates as a statistical record of life expectancy, or good health; education; and per capita income, which is a measure of money earned per individuals in a geographical region. Also, Governor Obi thinks the fall of the Naira is caused by the disrespect that Nigerians show toward the currency. He observes that “Currency is the measure of faith and trust of citizens of a nation; it is the measure of (a nation’s) productivity.” While he worries that even government officials have no regard for the Naira, he confesses: “I find it worrisome that while our manufacturers, (and) business people, are not getting dollars to bring in critical goods into our country, the politicians have enough of the dollars to share, and these are people who have no legitimate means of earning this dollar.” As for the reduction of Big Government Obi says, “For Nigeria to pull itself out of this economic recession (which the Buhari Administration claims is over), the (second) in the last (five) years, there is a compelling need to cut the pork out of the budget and expenditure at all levels of government, and redirect the economy from a wasteful consumption-based (economy) to a productive economy.” There is no doubt that productivity, brick-and-mortar or service, is strategic to the growth of any economy. That probably informs the development and adoption of the concept of Gross Domestic Product as an index for measuring the performance of an economy. A classic definition of economics is about the rational allocation of scarce resources among the consumers of every society or community. It assumes the availability of material goods for sharing among the people. Now, if nothing was produced there would be nothing to pass along. Most Nigerian governments, from the intrusion of the military into Nigeria’s political space, have woefully failed to grow the productive capacity of the Nigerian economy. The biggest proof of that is the huge import bill of the Nigerian economy. Public intellectuals suggest that food, clothing and shelter are the most basic existential requirements of man. Some others have added healthcare, transportation and entertainment. But whichever way you skin it, it all boils down to productivity, a score on which the Nigerian economy is failing woefully. As a matter of fact, how a presidential candidate expects to transform Nigeria’s economy, from an import-oriented economy to one that produces most, if not all Nigeria’s consumer goods, must be a campaign issue. Nigerian electorate should not be content with the bald platitudes that politicians are wont to spew. The politicians should be required to provide graphic and statistical detail of the deliverables and how they want to go about it. This is one way that journalists who man the business, economic, financial and investment desks of media houses can help Nigeria. They should use their specialised knowledge to wheedle out details from the candidates, interrogate, analyze and present same to their audiences. The freebie oil economy, which is hitched to the economy of North America and Western Europe, is the tempter that lures Nigeria’s policymakers away from thinking hard about how to make Nigeria’s economy productive. The incredible reality is that what needs to be done to make Nigeria’s economy productive is no more than drastic improvement of electricity supply, upgrade of the transportation system, universal access to education and acceleration of Ease of Doing Business processes. It is necessary to emphasise that the national electricity grid that has pretty much collapsed recently must be urgently revived, and those responsible for the disgraceful act of negligence must be sanctioned. That way, every other thing will work itself out. It’s really no more than that. If you present citizens who are mentally equipped with the requisite environment, what you have done is to bring opportunity to ready minds. Economic planning for a nation should focus, first, on developing human resources instead of calculating how mineral resources will be exploited. One major reason that Nigeria’s economy is near-comatose is competent brains and the hands that will run the economy are not available or few. 