Party’s reconciliation mode activated Wike to serve as presidential campaign DG  As correctly reported by The Point in its Thursday, June 16 edition, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who is the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party for 2023, played the ace in deciding the running mate of the party in Abuja on Thursday. He announced the choice of Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, who The Point reported was running neck and neck with Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike. The media had earlier reported that Wike had been chosen by a committee set up for that purpose by the party, but it was later denied by the party. An insider familiar with developments in the selection process told The Point that “perception and public image, acceptability to other zones of the country, especially the north” were key factors that swayed the final decision in favour of Okowa. “The thing was complicated in a way, but HE AA had sounded out many interest groups across the party and even beyond. At the end of the day, whereas the nominees were very well qualified, the issue of perception, image and acceptance by other sections of the country became crucial factors. It’s a joint ticket, I am sure you know that and a lot of balancing act was done to arrive at the choice of Okowa “Besides, he has been a hard-working and faithful party man. He has handled some very difficult assignments in the party and he delivered successfully. He is loved and respected across the party and beyond it. “He also has the party in the state firmly in his grip, and so, the issue of who wins Delta State is out of it.” The source played down the possible backlash from the development. He said everybody knows that the Rivers State Governor is a man of strong character and the party will never do anything to undermine him. He said the party will go full force into reconciliation and ensure that a united house is secured immediately. “HE AA informed him (Wike) earlier today of his decision. I don’t see any negative fallout of what has transpired. We are all humans and it would be preposterous to think that the Rivers Governor would not be hurt. Even though many videos of him saying emphatically that he wouldn’t ever take the position of a running mate suddenly surfaced on the internet. Some utterances are at best political. People say some things just to be politically correct, that is not to say that if the situation changes tomorrow they cannot go back on that thing they have said. “The party’s reconciliation mode is fully activated now. And the gentleman is very most likely to be the Director-General or Chairman of the party’s Presidential Campaign Organisation,” the source vouched. Atiku had explained that arriving at his choice of Okowa was a tough decision that required wide consultations with various stakeholders. He made it clear that his “running mate would have the potential to succeed him at a moment’s notice, i.e a president in waiting”. According to him, Okowa possesses the admirable attributes for the position of vice-president and has the appropriate experiences in both the legislative and executive arms of governance. “He personifies not only the seriousness the current moment represents for our country but also the future that our young people yearn for and also deserve. “He’s a serving governor who has demonstrated in his state and through his conduct that governance is about service to the people. I know that he will not only add excitement to our energized campaign but will also help to bring focus, discipline and stability to our government come 2023,” Atiku enunciated before announcing his name. Okowa in his acceptance speech after his nomination declared that the solutions to Nigeria’s problems as a nation lay in Atiku’s book “My Covenant With Nigeria” and urged party members and all Nigerians to join hands with the PDP to rescue the nation from maladministration. According to him, “it will require a lot of commitment and unity from each and every one of us in our various wards, local governments and states. We need the PDP to return to power; we have answers to the questions because I have the opportunity of going through our candidate’s book ‘My covenant with Nigeria’. It’s something worth studying and something put together that other presidential candidates of other parties have not been able to put together. “When you go through it, you will find solutions to our problems in that document and I must appreciate our presidential candidate publicly for making this happen early enough. “Many people are out there speaking to Nigerians, based on social media reports but he has taken time to understudy Nigeria because of the experience that he has had in the past and has been able to proffer solutions and I believe that by the grace of God, we will definitely take on the elections and win landslide.” 