 BY PASTOR TUNDE BAKARE Since the conclusion of the APC Primaries in Abuja on the 7th and 8th of June, 2022, while I have received an almost endless stream of visitors and shared various impressions, I have not made any official public statements until today. As the main constituency and core group I am accountable to, I deem it appropriate to share a few thoughts with you first. Please permit me if this is all I can share today. I am sure that, by God’s grace, we will have other opportunities hereafter to elaborate on the rich bread and royal dainties of Asher. This is the secret of Asher’s blessing, favour, anointed walk and strength. See Genesis 49:20 and Deuteronomy 33:24-25. Is that alright with you? On February 19, 1957, Senator John F. Kennedy, the future president of the United States of America, said:
“Mothers may still want their favorite sons to grow up to be President but…they do not want them to become politicians in the process.” In the course of my lifelong commitment to serving my nation, Nigeria, I have found these words telling. Yet, I remain convinced now more than ever that the quest to serve our beloved nation, Nigeria, has been a worthy adventure for a worthy cause. As a presidential aspirant in the Special Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), it has been a great honour to be the standard-bearer of the message of a New Nigeria; a Nigeria that works for every Nigerian. I congratulate the winner of the APC presidential primaries, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for his victory. His emergence as the flagbearer and presidential candidate of the APC is a testament to his significant contributions to the cause of the South West as well as his labour towards the formation and establishment of the APC as I have said in times past. I, therefore, extend best wishes to him as he proceeds on the campaign trail towards the 2023 general elections. To my supporters across the nation and in the diaspora, I thank you for your unalloyed support despite the challenges leading up to the primaries. Our heads remain unbowed because we did not compromise on the values that are integral to building a New Nigeria. For us, the means has always been as important as the end. This is why we confidently wear our “zero votes” as a badge of “zero tolerance for a certain kind of politics.” It is to Almighty God I will ultimately give account, and it is in Him I will continually trust despite what today may appear to be a setback. There is still a cause and there is still a nation to transform. This is not the work of just one man or woman or just one party, but the calling upon every Nigerian worthy of the name. In the words of Martin Luther King, Jr., it is my earnest prayer that the good Lord will bless Nigeria with “leaders not in love with money but in love with justice. Not in love with publicity but in love with humanity. Leaders who can subject their particular egos to the pressing urgencies of the great cause of freedom.” May we all find it within ourselves to become these leaders no matter the temptation to be less than. This is the moment where those leaders must begin to revive the dreams of our founding patriots; the dreams of a Nigeria strong and united though tribes and tongues may differ, and the dreams of a Nigeria where no one is oppressed, no matter which part of the country they come from and live in, and no matter how they choose to worship God. This is the moment where we begin to live up to the ideals etched in our founding creeds — the ideals of a Nigeria where every Nigerian has a seat at the table of nationhood, and the ideals of a Nigeria where peace and justice reign. This is the moment where we begin to build a bridge between the dreams of our past, the realities of our present and the visions of our future towards a New Nigeria; a Nigeria where every man or woman, and every boy or girl, can live up to his or her full potential, and be all that they were created to be. I remain audaciously confident that a New Nigeria is possible and that, upon the foundational values of integrity and incorruptibility, Nigeria will, no doubt, become a cutting-edge nation; a nation that will, one day, be the Peace, Progress, Prosperity and Possibilities capital of the world. I remain committed to working towards this cause in the days ahead in whatsoever capacity God and the good people of Nigeria so choose. Thank you for listening. God bless you all, and may God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Bakare is the Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, Lagos. CAVEAT: Views and opinions expressed here are those of the writers and are not in any way those of The Point Newspaper – Editor 