Aggrieved chieftains making underground anti-party moves – Insiders Ruling party in dilemma  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The deadline set by the Independent National Electoral Commission for parties to submit the names of their presidential candidates along with those of their running mates certainly unsettled the 16 political parties planning to contest the presidential election in 2023.  The electoral body had given 6pm on June 17, 2022, as the deadline, after which the system would automatically shut down. The anxiety is however more intense in the two major political parties – the ruling All Progressives Congress and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party, as members loyal to different camps engage in veiled media activities to condemn or endorse the perceived choice of the candidates. On his part, contrary to speculations that he would pick Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State as his running mate, Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar nominated the Governor of Delta State, Ifeanyi Okowa. While some have said that this move is the beginning of failure for the PDP, others have endorsed it, saying Okowa is his best bet at this point in time. According to analysts, this move has not only thrown the other contending political parties into confusion but has also shown how prepared Atiku is to step into the rings come February 2023. The former Vice President has moved from one party to another in search of the opportunity to preside over the affairs of the country as the number one citizen. He has served eight years as the second-in-command during former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration. Atiku, it would seem, is not ready to leave anything to chance in realising his ambition next year, more so, when age and time are not on his side. The septuagenarian, like the other candidates, had party intrigues to contend with while searching for his running mate. The politicking was to pitch him against his anticipated catchment areas but he was able to wriggle his way out before the INEC deadline. Before he pronounced the Delta State governor as his running mate, the party had set up a committee to screen the individuals seen as capable hands that could aid him and the party to victory at the forthcoming polls. The trio of Okowa, Wike and Akwa Ibom Governor, Udom Emmanuel, were all in contention. Soon, rumours went viral that the committee had settled for Wike, who came second in the party’s presidential primary. As expected, the news attracted reactions and comments from political commentators nationwide but the final decision was a complete departure from that of the committee members as Okowa was nominated, and his name submitted to INEC. A lawyer and political analyst, Eddie Nicholas, described the scenario as “politics of the highest order where the actors do not trust each other.” “When I read that the committee meeting for the nomination of the PDP running mate for its standard-bearer had nominated Governor Wike, I felt something had gone wrong. I knew the decision was not going to work. Later, as Atiku came up boldly to nominate Okowa, my fears were allayed. How can anybody nominate Wike to run with Atiku in 2023? It would have been difficult for it to fly. Not that Wike is a bad product, no. But he is very strong-willed. He made it known to everyone who tried to listen that he was not prepared to be vice or running mate to anybody. If he was considered based on his structure and reach, whoever did, failed to consider other things,” he noted. Another analyst, Dr. Chike Amadi, however, said Okowa appeared too soft for the kind of politics that would play out from now through the presidential elections. “Wike would have been the best bet for Atiku though there is the fear that the two may not be able to work well together, owing to mutual suspicion. However, I think the election would first be won before anyone starts to think about the actual work,” he argued. Stakeholders under the platforms of the various political parties have scored Atiku high, saying that his decision to pick a candidate he can work with in good time is a sign of preparedness. According them, the Labour Party, New Nigeria Peoples Party and even the ruling party, among others, have yet to decide on running mates for their presidential candidates. “What they have is, at best, an interim arrangement. They are lacking in this area; I mean the guts to make a decision and damn the consequences,” Nicholas said. RULING PARTY IN DILEMMA
How the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu emerged through a keenly contested primary election is no more news. What may be news, according to insiders, is the fact that many of the governors and stakeholders that perfected the winning format might no longer be speaking with one voice. A number of the governors from the northern part of the country have been enlisting the support of media and other stakeholders in their bid to be chosen as running mate to the flagbearer. The Point gathered that, some of them who had felt that they were the most favoured, had been disappointed with the turn of events as the INEC deadline drew nearer. “The discontent in some quarters may be dangerous if not well handled. This is the reason the party must manage the fallout of its decision more than the fallout of the presidential primaries,” Ayo Adelani, a lawyer and APC stakeholder, noted. “The issue of whether it should be a Muslim/Muslim ticket is top on the table. People have said that without this, it might be difficult to win the elections, considering the fact that Atiku is the one holding the flag in PDP. Northerners would line up more behind a Muslim from the North that a Christian who is also one of them,” he added. Already, The Point gathered that some heavyweight party chieftains, who had either been promised or penciled down for the vice presidential positions, across the parties, but had been disappointed, were making underground anti-party moves to consolidate their standing after the 2023 elections. Nicholas particularly berated the duo of Peter Obi and Rabiu Kwankwaso whose parties at the close of the deadline were not able to nominate running mates. He acknowledged that parties could go into mergers, but argued that, as candidates some people said they were looking up to for genuine change and transformation of the country, they ought not to be identified as “candidates who cannot nominate their running mates as and when due.” He said, “Nigerians, particularly, the youths are clamouring for Peter Obi but a man expected to be the transformer does not know who his running mate would be. Let me tell you, the choice of a running mate is the sole right of the candidate. All he needs to do is inform the party and engage in consultations. The party chieftains can only advise or suggest but the final decision is his. So, why have Obi and Kwankwaso not been able to name their running mates? “Obi named Doyin Okupe as a stand-in running mate. No. This is not to be. Both of them are Southern Christians. What is the Labour Party trying to prove? That they did not see anyone from the North to stand in or that they are not recognised in the North? For NNPP and Kwankwaso, names like Donald Duke, former governor of Cross River State, Nyesom Wike and even Peter Obi, the Presidential candidate of the Labour Party are being flaunted by the former senator as his possible running mates. The question I am forced to ask is this: is he really serious or has joined the race as a spoiler?” “Unlike Obi who named Okupe, Tinubu who named one Kabiru Massari as their placeholders while still searching for the authentic running mates, I don’t know who Kwankwaso’s running mate is, whether authentic or placeholder,” he said. A social critic and political analyst, Johnbull Israel, said all the political parties, including the PDP, which had named their running mates were trying to be very careful. He said, “It is true that when someone wants to run for the post of either president or governor, he should from the outset decide on who his running mate would be even before emerging as the candidate. From what we have seen, it looks like the candidates are being more careful because the 2023 election will definitely be a departure from the normal system. So everyone of them wants to pick a running mate that will win votes from his zone. “This is exactly why Tinubu and the APC are settling for a Muslim/Muslim ticket. But I am afraid that may backfire because they would have not only polarised their party, they would have also created a hydra-headed monster among the electorate. This is a problem for them. They are now receiving threats from both religious bodies, so who are they going to favour? Even as APC is claiming that the choice of Tinubu is already a victory for the party, they are in for a great battle ahead. “Names like Ibrahim Shettima, Babagana Zulum, Ibrahim Bello Dauda, Babachir Lawal, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, are on parade as Tinubu’s running mate but till now, none of them is sure of the ticket. And you want me to believe that the APC is not afraid. They are. “If APC and Tinubu had immediately named Senator George Akume as running mate, by now, the dust would have settled but as it is, whoever they name, there must be a religious colouration, which is a major factor in 2023 following what is happening in the country. It’s really tough.” The Christian Association of Nigeria had warned that if Tinubu and the APC picked a Muslim running mate, the whole northern Christians would vote against the party same way their Muslim counterparts had also warned that regardless of the fact that Tinubu is a Muslim, if he failed to pick a northern Muslim, they would vote against the party. A Muslim businessman who preferred anonymity told The Point that he expected Tinubu to name his running mate, at most, two days after winning the presidential ticket. “If Tinubu had named his running mate one or two days after emerging the APC Presidential candidate, whether a Muslim or Christian from the North, all the dust would not have been raised. Now the APC is in a dilemma because the party has created serious awareness and polarised the people along religious lines. It is a minus for them.” A Christian civil servant who also pleaded not to be mentioned said the northern Christians would certainly make good their threat if APC settled for a Muslim/ Muslim ticket to prove that they were not in the minority as widely claimed by their Muslim neighbours. “I am a northern Christian. We will obey CAN to the letter and vote for the party and candidate we will be instructed to vote for. When APC brought President Buhari and Prof Osinbajo, we voted for them. It was balanced. Why is it now that the vice president should come from the North? They gave the presidential ticket to a Southern Muslim, and seeing it is our turn to produce the vice president, they are now playing pranks? “We will prove with our votes that we are not in the minority. The 2023 presidential election will rewrite the history and beliefs of Nigerians. Let Tinubu and APC go ahead to run a Muslim/Muslim ticket and see what will happen. People believe we are in the minority because we the Christians bear names that sound Islamic but I tell you, 2023 will shock people.” Though the INEC gave Friday, June 17 as the deadline for the uploading of the parties’ presidential candidates and the running mates, the electoral umpire has not foreclosed the substitution of candidates’ names. The political parties that have not submitted their authentic candidates’ names still have the window of opportunity to substitute the placeholders with authentic names. 