 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A 35-year-old ex-convict, Saheed Ishola, has told a Chief Magistrate’s Court in Osogbo, Osun State to temper justice with mercy by reviewing his sentence as it would be difficult for him to survive in prison as an ulcer patient. Ishola, who was sentenced to jail for two years for stealing a car engine and gear, prayed the court to consider his medical condition. He told the court that he stole the items in order to raise money for food owing to an ulcer. The convict was alleged to have stolen a Mazda gear, valued at N100, 000, property of one Jazeem Alimi. Ishola was convicted for stealing a complete engine of a Mazda vehicle valued at N150, 000 on June 11, 2022 around 6pm at Owo – Eba area of Owode-Ilesa Road in Osogbo. The offence was said to be contrary to and punishable under Section 390 (9) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume 11 Laws of Osun State, 20O2. The charge was read to him in court. He pleaded guilty without having any legal representation. The police prosecutor, Inspector Olayiwola Rasaq, told the court that the defendant had earlier been convicted on two different occasions on the account of stealing. According to Rasaq, the convict on June 14, 2019 at about 5am at Kajola area of the town had in his possession three iron plates, two iron basins, clothes and some plates which he could not give a satisfactory account of how he got. According to the prosecutor, Magistrate O. O. Oladoye convicted Ishola after pleading guilty. He was sentenced to community service to cut the grass around the court premises. A month after, exactly on July 15, 2018, Ishola was arrested again by the police for stealing one iron chair valued at N5,000 property of one Usman Shuaib at about 5am at Owode Ara area of Osogbo. Magistrate O. T. Badmus sentenced Ishola, who pleaded guilty to the charge brought against him, to six months imprisonment with an option of N15, 000 fines.
After serving the jail term, Rasaq said that the convict was unremorseful as he committed a fresh offence. Before being sentenced, Ishola urged the court to consider the fact that he was an ulcer patient and that he would not have enough food to eat in prison. Chief Magistrate Olusola Aluko said that Ishola, being a serial offender, did not deserve mercy. He, therefore, sentenced him for two years without an option of fine. 