Says present situation in party doesn’t inspire confidence Praises Wike’s gallantry  A former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Elder Godsday Orubebe, has dumped the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the 2023 general elections. Orubebe, who caused a stir in 2015 during the collation of the Presidential Election results, blamed recent developments in the party for his decision. The Burutu, Delta State-born politician listed the recent primaries of the party and failure to zone the 2023 presidency to the south and the manner in which the party is driven at the state level in Delta as among the reasons. The former minister in a letter to the National Chairman of the party, Senator Iyorchai Ayu, noted that it would seem that the party was not ready to reclaim power in the 2023 elections going by recent developments within it. In a letter dated 20th June, 2023, titled, “Resignation From People’s Democratic Party (PDP),” Orubebe said “I write to formally inform you of my resignation from the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP). This has been communicated to the Chairman of Burutu Ward 3, Burutu Local Government Area, Delta State, effective 20th June 2022. “Consequently, I am by this letter intimating you of my total withdrawal from all activities at the Ward, Local, State and National levels of the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP)”, the letter read. Orubebe added that, “I am highly honoured and privileged to have been part of a political party that successfully transformed a pariah nation to one that commanded respect in the comity of nations. “When we lost the Presidential election in 2015 in bewildering circumstances, to say the least, it was my belief that the party would use the opposition period to re-strategize with the aim of taking back power at the earliest opportunity. “However, the present situation in the party does not inspire confidence that the party is ready to regain power in 2023. Against the mood of the nation and in complete disregard to the provisions of the party’s constitution, the party, threw the zoning of the Presidency open, which created a situation that led to the emergence of a Northerner as the party’s Presidential flagbearer, thus making the two topmost positions in the party, after your emergence as the National Chairman, to be occupied by Northerners, contrary to section 7.3(c) of the party’s constitution.” Orubebe, however, commended the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, for his performance during the presidential primaries of the PDP where he came second. “I salute and commend the Governor of Rivers State, His Excellency, Nyesom Wike, for his efforts and gallantry at the primaries. Posterity will be kind to him when the history of the party is written. There are lots to be said, but out of respect for the party, I leave some stories untold at this time. “My belief in the sanctity of Nigeria is unshaken and I will continually work for her progress and development, even if it is through another route”, he added. 