 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A 27-year-old-man, Abdulkareem Abdullahi, has been ordered to be remanded at the Ilesa Correctional Centre by a Chief Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State for allegedly defrauding and attempting to kidnap a judge and a politician in the state. The police in the state dragged the suspect to court on the account of stealing the sum of N50, 000 from Justice Sikiru Oke after threatening to abduct and kill him if he refused to send him some amount of money. Abdullahi was said to have sent some text messages to Oke asking that he should send the sum of N250, 000 to him or risk being kidnapped and killed.
The judge reportedly sent the sum of N50, 000 to Abdulahi after being intimidated and threatened. The charge against him read, “You Abdulkareem Abdullahi, between 4th day of March and 10th day of April, 2022 at Ode-Omu, Osun State, in the Osogbo Magisterial District, did with intent to steal, unlawfully demand the sum of N250,000 from Justice Sikiru A. Oke with threats of kidnapping, injury or detriment to be caused to him if the demand was not complied with, and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 406 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume Il Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002. “You (defendant) on the same date, time, place and in the aforementioned Magisterial District, did steal the sum of N50,000, property of Justice Sikiru A. Oke and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 383, punishable under Section 390(9) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume Il Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002. “You did, with intent to intimidate or annoy, threaten to kidnap and kill Justice Sikiru A. Oke through text messages and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 86 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume Il Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002. “You did unlawfully attempt to commit a felony to wit: kidnapping of Justice Sikiru A. Oke and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 509 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume Il Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002.” In the same vein, the police alleged that Abdulahi threatened a politician, Olodo Adebayo Taiwo, with abduction if he didn’t send the sum of N250, 000 to him. The charge against him read that “You (defendant) on the same date, time and place, did with intent to steal, unlawfully demand the sum of N250, 000 from Olodo Adebayo Taiwo with threats of kidnapping to wit injury or detriment to be caused to him if the demand was not complied with. “You did, with intent to intimidate or annoy, threaten to kidnap and kill Olodo Adebayo Taiwo through text messages. You did unlawfully attempt to wit: kidnapping of Olodo Adebayo Taiwo and committing an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 509 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria, 2002.” Abdullahi, who pleaded not guilty to the allegations, had no legal representation. Police prosecutor urged the court to remand him in custody pending the hearing of the matter. Chief Magistrate Olusegun Ayilara ordered that the defendant should be remanded in Ilesa Correctional facility and adjourned the matter till June 15 for mention. 