Delegates smiled home richer Return of regional politics  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The ruling All Progressives Congress had its Special Convention for Presidential Primary from June 6 -8 at the prestigious Eagle Square in Abuja. The convention was earlier scheduled for March 29 and 30, but was shifted when the Independent National Electoral Commission adjusted the timeline for the conduct of party primaries and submission of their results. The APC Special Convention came with a pre-convention crisis that almost tore the party apart, but the convention turned out to be very peaceful and the delegates enjoyed it as it lasted. The emergence of a former Lagos State governor, Bola Tinubu, as the presidential candidate of the APC for the 2023 general election at the convention was no doubt a well-fought victory. The former governor defeated 13 other aspirants to clinch the ticket at the primary concluded on Wednesday in Abuja. He polled 1,271 votes to emerge the winner while his closest rival, former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, got 316 votes. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo came third with 253 votes. The Electoral Committee voided 13 votes after the exercise
A total of 2,203 delegates accredited to vote were APC party members elected from the 774 local government areas in Nigeria. Acrimony between delegates However, there were intrigues and politicking that tensed up the environment. At the pavilions where both Imo and Delta State delegates were quartered respectively, fights ensued between delegates. The delegates from Imo State who were loyal to their principal, a former governor and those loyal to a former deputy governor exchanged blows while wanting to undo each other and be recognized as the lawful delegates. The same was the case with the Delta State delegates. One of the victims of the brouhaha from Imo State who refused to disclose his name said they were suffering from the political face-off between the serving governor, Hope Uzodimma and his predecessor, Rochas Okorocha. “We were the elected delegates but when we got here, we were told there are recognized delegates from the state. The issue is that we tried to make a case for ourselves but the committee members would not listen to us. “This is terrible. The way these so-called leaders do things with impunity is worrisome. I would not have come if I knew this was what will happen, I would have stayed away. I don’t like what is happening. The time has come when we will take what belongs to us,” he fumed. While the delegates from Imo State were complaining, others were celebrating and commending the APC National Working Committee for organising the best ever Presidential Primary. Some of them claimed that the Special Convention will ever remain indelible in their minds. Delegates smiled home richer For security reasons, a delegate from Lagos State who spoke with The Point on condition of anonymity said, the Special Convention really changed their lives. “It is not like the national convention for the election of party national officers where delegates cried back home. We were treated very well by the aspirants,” he said. He would not confirm the dollar and naira rain that characterized the primary but was quick to add that “it was a very good business.” Unconfirmed sources claimed that some aspirants paid as much as $10000 and $25000 to delegates to woo their votes. The Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo in his address and manifesto said, “How can you claim to love Nigeria and vote for who you don’t believe in?” This statement has been interpreted by political analysts as a revelation that delegates were influenced to dump their choice aspirants and vote for money. “This statement shows that the delegates have been influenced financially to vote for the highest bidder. It simply shows that the vote-buying syndrome has come to stay in our politics,” said Okey  Nwauche, an observer at the convention. Nwauche noted further that the two mega parties, APC and PDP have completely destroyed politics in Nigeria. He accused them of not only destroying politics but also destroying every segment of the country with their moneybag politics. “What we saw in both the APC and PDP special conventions will be a far cry from what is going to happen in the 2023 general elections. That time, it will be both vote-buying and intimidation. Electorates will be given money to sell their votes, anyone who refuses will be intimidated to vote for who he or she does not believe in. I’m saying this because from what happened, money exchanged hands, the EFCC and the Police are aware of the level of bribery that took place at the conventions yet no single arrest. “Imagine people voting and snapping their ballot papers to show who paid them. It is unfortunate. Those who wanted the PDP and APC tickets at all cost have got them. They spent fortunes to get the tickets and now that they have got it they will take the trade to the election proper, and it will be terrible. “When the supporters of an aspirant can boast of how much their principal spent to get the ticket, then it is a dangerous development in our politics. We must rise against the trend if we want to save our democracy. Otherwise, a time is coming when “criminals” will take over completely. “The APC Presidential Primary was a repetition of the PDP primary. It was the stepping down of aspirants for the candidate with a deep pocket. It’s the same people playing the same game on different platforms. The youths have a lot of work to do if Nigeria must be recovered from those holding her down,” he lamented. Return of regional politics Another observer, Musa Abdullahi, told The Point that the setting now is proof that regional politics has fully returned. He said the three main regions have presidential candidates. “We are back to regional politics. The four political parties that have weight have elected their presidential candidates from the regional zones. Atiku Abubakar from the North East, Rabiu Kwankwaso from the North West, Peter Obi from the South East and Bola Tinubu from the South West. The only zones they can work hard to see how they can win their votes are the North Central and South-South regions to make the difference. “2023 will definitely be a tribal election, however, the candidate who has a national appeal will have an upper hand. I don’t believe it will take moneybags to win the election,” Abdullahi noted. A group known as Youth Must Vote For Better Nigeria said the time is now for the youths who have been neglected for many years to rise and take back their country. Speaking on behalf of the group, Chris Collins, an Abuja-based businessman said, “There can’t be a better time for the youths of this country to rise and take back what rightly belongs to us. We are focused this time around. Politically, we are aware now and we want to speak loudly with one voice. “Gone are the days when we were deceived with tribal and religious sentiments. We know among them the most suitable candidate who can turn around the fortune of our country and that is the person we will vote for regardless of his tribe and religion. Enough is enough. We can’t remain youth leaders, youth wing for life while those who are supposed to retire from active politics are the ones calling the shots. No! It’s no longer accepted. “We are mobilizing our youths for the 2023 general elections. Presidential, Governorship, National Assembly and States Assembly are all in our calculations. We can’t be deceived again. Only youths who do not know anything will accept to be thugs. Our members have been mobilized to register and pick up their PVCs. They are doing that with total commitments. This time, our votes must count,” he said. Delegates die in auto crash The low point of the APC Special Convention for Presidential Primary was the deaths of delegates from Rivers State. On Thursday, the state delegates were involved in an accident on their way from Abuja where they had participated in the party’s presidential primary, which concluded on Wednesday. Tonye Cole, governorship candidate of the APC in Rivers, in an earlier statement, identified the victims as “Hon. Onimiteim Vincent Samuel and Barr. Prince Loveday Motats”. Some other yet-to-be-identified persons were also said to have been injured in the crash. One of the occupants of the vehicle, Innocent Amadi, said the crash occurred about 8 am on Thursday near the University of Abuja Staff quarters. The survivor said the driver of the vehicle was speeding when he suddenly applied the brakes, while another vehicle was in front. He further disclosed that five of the seven occupants of the car were injured and currently receiving treatment at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital. “Our vehicle was speeding. So, in the process, there was another vehicle before us. Because the driver was speeding, he lost absolute control, he applied the brakes and the wheel pulled out. “The motor somersaulted. I was in front of the vehicle. I came out unhurt. I fastened my seat belt. Though we lost one person, five people were injured,” he said. Winners and losers Expectedly, mixed reactions have continued to trail the outcome of the APC presidential primary. While there was an avalanche of congratulatory messages, the Yahaya Bello Campaign Organisation described the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, who was one of the aspirants as the hero of the APC presidential primary election and of oppressed Nigerians. According to a statement on Wednesday by Yemi Kolapo, the Director, Media and Publicity of the Campaign Organisation, the Special Convention was highly compromised despite its peaceful process. The organization argued that Bello is the hero of the process and has made his point loud in the face of gang-up by Northern governors and leaders against his aspiration. She said, “The All Progressives Congress’ presidential primary elections have come and gone. The process was largely peaceful but highly compromised. This is however not new in a country where democracy is defined as the government of the oppressors by the oppressors and for the oppressors. “It is sad to note that those who should know and who many progressives had thought of as leaders with integrity are the ones working against the people they were (s)elected to represent for egocentric reasons. “In this process, one leader stands out, according to the majority of Nigerians. And that leader is one that has proven to the downtrodden and those regarded as “Nigerians without surnames”, that regardless of age-long intimidation by the elite, the best of our people can stand tall without compromising the values that we should have been known for as a nation,” the organization noted. Nevertheless, Governor Yahaya Bello joined the army of well-wishers to congratulate Tinubu. Kolapo in a statement said the Kogi Governor “has accepted the outcome of the primaries and would give the needed support to ensure the victory of the flag bearer and the ruling party in the 2023 presidential election.” On his part, President Muhammadu Buhari congratulated Tinubu, saying: “Having emerged victorious he has our full and unwavering support. “Now our party must unite behind our candidate to achieve victory at the 2023 elections so that our government will continue to secure our communities, grow our economy and continue the fight against corruption. “During the Primaries, there were factions and disagreements amongst the contestants and now that the process has ended we must build a united front in our party. “In this way, the APC will remain the party that can best deliver on the priorities of the Nigerian people. Now it is time to put the process behind us. “Because what we can all agree on is that the APC remains the party that can best deliver on the priorities of the Nigerian people. But the way to demonstrate that we can get on with this job is to unite. “The movement we created in 2013 is beyond individuals. Together, we made history by becoming the first party in our country’s history to unseat a party in power and propel our candidate into the Presidency through a peaceful democratic transfer of power. “We strongly believe that Bola Ahmed Tinubu will safeguard and improve on this democratic achievement and legacy. He is the right candidate for Nigeria’s aspiration because he is the APC’s candidate and under the continued stewardship of our party. Nigeria can achieve greatness and fulfill its destiny in Africa and the World. “The high point of this extraordinary convention of our party was the energy of the Presidential aspirants and it is from amongst them that we have chosen the most popular leader. “I recognize and commend the enthusiasm and self-confidence amongst our party men and women. “I also thank the delegates for making the right decision leading to the emergence of our candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.” APC the ultimate winner Arguably, the most important winner from the APC primary is the party itself. Many analysts had predicted doom for a ruling party that has never gotten its house in order since it came into power in 2015. In fact, the party has had to postpone its convention several times to, among others, avert the worsening of its crises. The crises in the APC are multi-faceted and multi-layered but the party appears to have temporarily put them aside with the outcome of the convention.
Why aspirants withdrew from contest Before the voting process began, seven of the 23 aspirants withdrew from the contest and declared support for Tinubu, while another one stepped down for Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Furthermore, one aspirant stepped down but did not declare support for any of his co-contestants. As a result, only 14 of the 23 aspirants took part in the primary. A total of 2,203 delegates accredited to vote were APC party members elected from the 774 local government areas in Nigeria. I didn’t expect to win – Tinubu Tinubu cruised to victory with a landslide of 1,271 votes. An elated Tinubu, while delivering his acceptance speech, said he did not expect to win the party’s presidential primary. “I did not expect to win, I won. I must be intoxicated with victory,” he said. He also said he holds ‘no grudges’ against members of his party who worked against his candidature. “The competition is now over. Those who did not support me, you have nothing to fear. I hold no grudges and grievances. Let us each agree to join hands in defeating PDP and beat back their retrogressive understanding of Nigeria,” he said. Coup d’état by Northern APC governors But for the insistence of governors of northern states controlled by the APC that the presidential power should shift to the south after eight years of President Muhammadu Buhari, a northerner, the entire exercise may have gone in a different direction. The governors on Saturday, June 4, 2022, threw their weight behind the quest for a southern president. They eventually met with President Buhari to sell the idea to him. In the end, Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State withdrew from the race. But Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State and former Governor Ahmed Sani of Zamfara State went ahead to run. Why Fayemi stepped down Governor Kayode Fayemi is considered a member of the larger Tinubu political family as the former Lagos governor played a prominent role in his governorship elections. It did not, however, surprise many that Fayemi decided to contest against his benefactor as the relationship between both men had deteriorated. The stance of Fayemi to contest against Tinubu put him in the bad books of many of the latter’s supporters. However, his decision to step down for his ‘leader’ just before the commencement of voting earned him the accolade of some of Tinubu’s supporters. It is believed that the 48 delegates from Ekiti, most of whom would have voted for Fayemi, ended up voting for Tinubu. Had Fayemi not stepped down, it would not have been a surprise to see Tinubu mobilise his resources in the South West against Fayemi’s anointed candidate in the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti. Akpabio’s tactical politics Ex-Niger Delta Minister and former governor of Akwa-Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio, was the first among the seven aspirants who stepped down to support Tinubu to victory at the poll. He asked the 93 delegates from his state to support Tinubu. Akpabio may, however, have simply played smart as he knew before stepping down that all the Akwa Ibom delegates would not be allowed to vote due to a court order stopping them from participating in the process. Although he may have gotten zero votes at the convention, his decision to step down, and being the first to do so among the cleared aspirants, put him in the good books of supporters of Tinubu. Barely 72 hours after the APC presidential convention, Akpabio has picked the APC ticket for Akwa Ibom Northwest. In the party’s primary that was held on Thursday evening, Akpabio scored a total of 478 votes to emerge winner.
He defeated Udom Ekpoudom and Joseph Akpan who scored three and one votes respectively. The primary, which held across the 108 wards in the 10 Local Government Areas of the District, had earlier produced DIG Udom Ekpoudom (Rtd) as the initial winner. Setting the tone shortly before rerun of the exercise in Ikot Ekpene on Thursday night, Chairman of APC Akwa Ibom chapter, Stephen Ntukekpo explained the National Working Committee of the party ordered a rerun due to security infractions in the May 28 exercise. Chris Ngige’s wisdom of Solomon Chris Ngige, the current labour minister, should consider himself a very lucky (or smart) person. He had declared his presidential ambition and secured his N100 million nomination form. But after President Buhari directed ministers seeking elective positions to resign, he had a rethink. He withdrew from the presidential race and preferred to keep his ministerial seat. That has turned out to be a smart move. The former Anambra governor may have gotten some votes from Anambra delegates, but would have lost the presidential primary, and likely his ministerial seat. Whither Emefiele and Jonathan It was reported that some relatives and associates of President Buhari at the presidential villa who the media call the “cabal”, had tried to convince the president to anoint the Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele and former President Goodluck Jonathan as the APC’s presidential candidate. The president’s wife, Aisha Buhari, had also in the past blamed the cabal for the tense relationship between Buhari and Tinubu. She accused them of hijacking her husband’s government. With Tinubu’s victory, the cabal’s moves to determine the potential successor of the president might have failed. Abdullahi Adamu’s divisive moves While Tinubu knew he had 22 challengers for the APC ticket, arguably the greatest threat to his ambition was not from any of his opponents but from the head of the party. As the national chairman of the APC, many would have expected Abdullahi Adamu to be neutral in the primaries or pretend to be neutral. He was neither. As part of his antics to prevent Tinubu from clinching the presidential ticket, Adamu made two controversial moves a few days before the convention. First, he threatened that the party would punish Tinubu for his statement that appeared critical of President Buhari. Then he told the party’s leadership that President Buhari had endorsed Ahmad Lawan as the consensus candidate. Both views were rejected by other members of the party’s executive, the NWC. The presidency also denied that Buhari endorsed Lawan or any other presidential aspirant. Tinubu may not want to rock the boat until after the main presidential election next year, but very few people would be surprised if Adamu is removed as party chairman after the election. 