 Workers in Ogun State have been charged to reflect on how they have been living and take their health in their hands in order to be fit to contribute meaningfully to the development of the Public Service and the state in general. The Head of Service, Nafiu Aigoro, who stated this during the flag off of the year 2022 Public Service Day Celebration, which started with “Know Your Health Status” called on everyone to do regular check up and be in good health. “Let’s take our health in our hands, we should not take this yearly event just like that, but it is an opportunity to reflect on how we have been taking care of our health in the past years and we need to sensitise ourselves and we have the vaccination and voluntary testing going on, let’s be ready to have it done,” he said. Speaking earlier, the Commissioner for Health, Tomi Coker thanked Governor Dapo Abiodun and the organizers for helping workers to know their health status which showed sign of valuing people that work in the service of the state, advising that, prevention was better than cure and everyone should be conscious to choose what he or she put in the mouth. In her welcome address, the Permanent Secretary, Bureau of Establishments and Training, Mrs. Lydia Fajounbo said the programme was specially designed for the celebration of Ogun workers, urging everyone to always go for medical checkup regularly and thanked the state government for given the workers the day to check their health status. In his goodwill message, the Special Adviser on Health, Tayo Lawal, said that checking health status was what people pay for outside but the governor approved it to be free, and it would empower and give everyone the information to know what one need to know, and how to remain and sustain healthy living. Dr. Mrs Temitope Yomibo- Sofolahan in her lecture on Non communicable diseases such as hypertension, the silent killer and diabetics, said it could happen in anybody and many people were not aware. She explained that over 37 million people in Nigeria and 1.1 billion globally are with hypertension and the older one becomes; the more the chances of having Blood Pressure and obese people who are not doing exercise are more prone to hypertension. According to her, everyone should have a lifestyle in the form of diet by reducing salt intake and make food natural with vegetables; urging people to do physical activities, manage stress, weight control and avoid smoking or alcohol. Speaking on behalf of the participants, Mrs. Oluwafemi Itunuoluwa from Hospital Management Board and Soji Solarin from Ministry of Information and Strategy, thanked the present administration for the laudable programme which would help the workers to put in more efforts in their day-to-day activities. 