…As party’s national stakeholders canvass support for northern Christian VP  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA A political pressure group in the All Progressives Congress (APC), National Stakeholders, has urged leaders of the party to guard against fielding a muslim-muslim ticket for the party ahead of the 2023 general election, saying the move will not augur well for the party. Aliyu Audu who addressed journalists in Abuja on Monday insisted that the party must think seriously about the unity of the country and the sensibilities of the christian voters north and south of the country especially given the country’s yawning fault lines that have emerged and worsened in recent years. Reflecting on the hurdles the Party crossed before settling for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as its standard bearer, the group noted that the party cannot afford to take any false step. “Today, the country is deeply divided within our fault lines of ethnicity and religion and we cannot afford to jettison this sensibilities in critical decision making. This is why we think that the All Progressives Congress must be guided by the sense of these sensibilities in the selection of the Vice Presidential Candidate of the party. “To do otherwnise would be to further fuel what divides us and give room for mischief makers to take advantage of our differences. Nigeria is in dire need of good governance and this can come from either a Muslim leader or a Christian leader. But in the spirit of nationalism, justice and fairness which the northern governors demonstrated a few days ago, the leaders of the north on whose shoulder the emergence of the Vice Presidential candidate rests must also demonstrate this spirit by ensuring that the candidate comes from the Christian faith. “The northern APC has in its fold capable individuals from the Christian faith with proven track record that can deliver just like anyone from the other faith. Their capability to deliver on the ideals of party aside, they also have the capacity to win elections for the party. Suffice to add that no individual wins elections for any political party, it is the collective of all and we are sure the APC can achieve this. “The APC National Stakeholders therefore call on the APC to narrow her search of the Vice Presidential candidate of the party to a northern Christian whom we have in abundance. Doing this will ensure national inclusion, help to manage our differences and promote national unity.” Aliyu stated . Relatedly, the North-East APC Youth Stakeholders Forum have appealed to other political zones in the country to consider the Northeast zone for the running mate to Bola Tinubu in view of the sacrifice the zone has made for the party. The group maintained that the zone has remained the stronghold of opposition politics and root of APC since the political dispensation that started in 1999. Addressing the media last night Chairman of the group, Haruna Adamu Sarduana noted that aside North-West zone , the northeast has been consistent in giving  the party the highest number of votes since 2015. The group said that they are not particularly bothered whether the eventual benefiary is a muslim or Christian, pointing out the choice northeast will neutralize the voting strength of the Peoples Democratic Party whose flagbearer is from the zone. “The North-East region has been giving block votes to the APC and supported candidate from the other regions right from its inception. Looking at the current pathetic situation that region is bedevilled with due to insurgency and other social unrest menace, it is fair we consider the zone “Zoning the position of the Vice President to the North East will neutralizes the PDP Presidential candidate and mobilize massive support from the region and other zones to ensure victory of Alh. Ahmed Bola Tinubu. “We therefore, Appealed to our national, state critical and non-critical stakeholders especially our father, President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR), our candidate Ahmed Bola Tinubu and Senator Abdullahi Adamu led APC to consider our request with urgent attention.” 