 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The Nigerian Baptist Convention has faulted the order by the Kwara State Government granting female Muslim students the freedom to wear the hijab into the newly reopened Oyun Baptist High School, Ijagbo, Oyun Local Government. The government had in February, shut down the school following a religious crisis over the usage of the hijab by female Muslim students which one life was lost while a panel was later set up by the state government to look into the crisis, and had since submitted its report to Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. After the three-month closure, the state government in a statement conveyed by the state permanent secretary, ministry of education and human capital development, Mary Kemi Adeosun, on Tuesday, directed that the school be reopened on Friday, the Jumat day of the Muslim faithful. The government in the statement added that students should not be stopped from freely practicing their religion, warning that it won’t hesitate to close down the school again if another issue arises. It reads, “The Kwara State Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development wishes to announce the reopening of the Oyun Baptist High School, Ijagbo from Friday, June 3, 2022. “Consequently, all teachers and students are directed to return to their classrooms while the government white paper committee continues the efforts to address pending issues related to the recent disturbance in the public school. “The Ministry restates government’s position that any Muslim schoolgirl who desires to wear the hijab is allowed to do so in all public schools, including in Oyun Baptist High School Ijagbo, which is owned by the State Government and run with public resources. “The Ministry’s decision to reopen the school is one of the government’s multi-prong approaches to return normalcy to the school.” It urged all stakeholders in the area to give peace a chance and to respect the law, warning that, “the government will not hesitate to shut the school again, among other things, if anything threatens the safety of the little children.” The state had also in March stated that not allowing the wearing of hijab in the school contravened Section 38 (1) of the 1999 constitution which states that, “Every person shall be entitled to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, including freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom (either alone or in community with others, and in public or in private) to manifest and propagate his religion or belief in worship, teaching, practice and observance.” Speaking to The Point, spokesman of the Christian body, Eben Durodola urged the state government and others to abide by the Nigerian constitution which stated that the country was a secular state and that they should also keep to the agreement it had with the Baptist Conference. He also added that the school belongs to the Baptist church, despite the government being the ones paying the salaries of the staff. He said, “The school belongs to the Baptist. We will follow the constitution of Nigeria in whatever we are doing. Others also should follow the principle and the constitution of Nigeria in whatever they do, so that things will go on well in this nation.” “They know the right thing to do, they know the provision of the constitution and they should follow the constitution, so that the constitution will not be meant for a group of people alone. Nigeria is a secular state. “The government knows who owns the school, even though they are paying the salaries of the teachers. There is an agreement between the government and the Baptist Conference in Kwara State. They know the agreement; they should just follow the existing agreement. Stressing the immense contributions the Baptist Church had made in the country, particularly in the area of education, the cleric reiterated the church’s resolve not to relent on its pursuance of peaceful coexistence in its schools and the country at large. “The important thing is Baptist has been in the business of education even before the creation of Nigeria. We have been contributing massively in terms of education to the success and the growth of Nigeria. We had an ex Nigerian president that passed through the Baptist school, there wasn’t any crisis. “We are law abiding people and we’ll continue to pray and pursue peace, to achieve peace and to make people to live in peace, so that God will touch the hearts of people that may want to disrupt the peaceful coexistence of our students, and so that peace will reign in this country and wherever we have people,” he added further. However, the Muslim Rights Concern has rejected the opening of the school without justice being meted out to the perpetrators of the killing of a Muslim in front of the school gate. Expressing his dissatisfaction to The Point, the Director of the Islamic rights group, Ishaq Akintola insisted that the granting of female Muslim students the freedom to wear hijab in the school was insufficient, urging the police to live up to its responsibility. He said, “Yes, freedom to wear hijab, but we do not accept the opening of the school. The government has not satisfied us. What of the extra-judicial killing by the Christians inside that school who shot at Muslim protesting at the gate? There’s been no single arrest over the killing at the school’s gate during the demonstration. People are calling for justice in the case of the killing of Rebecca, and the pregnant woman in Anambra. There is no partial justice; justice must go full circle for grievances to be assuaged. “We don’t want people being killed, we are against violence but if you want these people to be law abiding, then you must give them justice. If you don’t want Muslims to come out and start making that demand by themselves, they just have to defend themselves. If they think the matter has rested, they are joking. They are not doing us any favour, it (wearing of hijab) is their Allah given fundamental human right. On Durodola’s comment that the government was paying the salaries of teachers in the school, but the government doesn’t own the school, and that they should go back and look at the agreement they had with them and come out and do the right thing, the Islamic cleric berated the claim. He said, “What agreement is he talking about? He’s a slave master, that’s his middle name. They want to continue to enslave Muslims? Because they are running the administration of a school? “Talking about any mission being a concession of the school, who owns the land? Who gave them the land? Muslims have been there for hundreds of years, these missionaries came there, they begged for land. The Muslims gave them, how much did they pay? Let them come and show us the documents, we have the details. Let there be freedom, liberty. It is not for sale, it is free because it is in the constitution. They don’t own any school.” 