BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO More than 500 members of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party have defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress in Boripe Local Government Area of Osun State ahead of the July 16 governorship election in the state. Speaking on behalf of the defectors, Sola Adejumo popularly known as (Prince O) and Isa Bello attributed their defection to the convincing way and manner at which the state governor and candidate of APC, Gboyega Oyetola, has been managing the affairs of the state. They assured their readiness to support the governor and vote massively for him in the next governorship election. Meanwhile, monarchs in Ifelodun Federal Constituency of Osun have lauded Oyetola’s performance in the last three and half years, saying that he had paid his dues and deserved to be returned to office. The royal fathers particularly acknowledged how Governor Oyetola has been able to successfully manage the affairs of the state notwithstanding the various challenges, describing it as a mark of genius. They made the remarks when the campaign train of the governor moved to Boripe and Ifelodun Local Government Areas of the state. In his remark, the Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Ayotunde Olabomi, declared the town’s firm support for Oyetola, adding that it was not on the basis of sentiment but strictly based on his achievements across sectors. The traditional ruler assured of the readiness of his subjects to vote massively for the governor, noting that eligible sons and daughters of the town have been largely mobilised for the purpose. Similarly, the Olona of Ada, Oba Oyeyode Olumuyiwa Ojo, and Olororuwo of Ororuwo, Oba Qamarudeen Adeyanju, disclosed that all towns and villages in their domains are committed to reciprocating the kind gestures of Governor Oyetola towards them as evidenced by the different interventions of his administration. They said they had mobilised their subjects to embrace Oyetola’s re-election as a personal project, saying a win for Oyetola is a victory for the natives of all the towns and villages in the local government. The traditional rulers who showered encomiums and prayers on the Governor for living up to his constitutional responsibilities since assumption of office, said the time has come to reciprocate the gesture in due course. Also, the Elende of Eko-Ende, Oba Abdul-Rauf Olaniyan, Eburu of Iba, Oba Adekunle Okunoye, Olobaagun of Obaagun, Oba Jimoh Adebisi Okunade and Eesa of Ikirun, High Chief Kareem Adetoyese Lawal reaffirmed their unalloyed support for the re-election of Governor Oyetola. Addressing the mammoth crowd at the campaign venues, Oyetola, who had welcomed the PDP defectors into APC, appreciated the people of Osun for their support for his administration, saying the tremendous achievements his government had recorded so far were through the help of God and the support of the people. He assured that if re-elected, his second term would be more rewarding and resourceful, saying his first term was a foundation for a brighter future. Oyetola urged citizens who are yet to collect their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs) to do so, to enable them exercise their civic duty during the forthcoming governorship election. The State Chairman, All Progressives Congress, APC, Prince Gboyega Famodun, called on the people of the councils to troop out en masse and vote for APC come July 16. He urged the party and community leaders across the federal Constituency to begin a mobilisation exercise and ensure that their indigenes living outside but registered at home are encouraged to come home and vote. Similarly, the Director General of Governor Oyetola Re-election Campaign Council, Senator Ajibola Basiru, reeled out some of the achievements of Governor Oyetola and urged the people of the Constituency to get him re-elected. 