 The Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji Campaign Organisation has demanded justice for All Progressives Congress members who were victims of violence allegedly unleashed by thugs working for the Social Democratic Party on Saturday at Itaji-Ekiti. The Organisation reiterated its call for the arrest, investigation and prosecution of former House of Representatives member, Bimbo Daramola and some SDP hoodlums who have been identified as masterminds of the attack. In a statement by its Director of Media and Publicity, Taiwo Olatunbosun, the Oyebanji Campaign said the attack launched by those it referred to as SDP miscreants is unacceptable in a civilized world and antithetical to ethos of democracy. The Oyebanji Campaign gave the name of the APC member killed as Tope Ajayi saying the deceased died as a result of gun shot wound he received during the attack while on a road show organised to canvass support for his party’s governorship flag bearer, in Itaji Ekiti. It condemned the resort to violence by the SDP supporters saying killing and maiming law-abiding citizens is not a noble way to win governorship election in a politically sophisticated state like Ekiti. Apart from Daramola, the campaign body urged the Police and other security agencies to arrest and interrogate SDP members who allegedly participated in the Saturday’s attack with a view to prosecuting anyone found culpable among them. It gave the names of other alleged suspects in the attack to include Ibigbami Anthony, Arise, Kenko, Kosomolate, John Akanle, Muniru Scorpion, Sunday Fez Cap, Omoniyi Tope, Musa Asaka, Kayode Aluko and Idowu Arije. The Oyebanji Campaign Organisation said revealing the identities of the individuals fingered in the attack would assist the security agencies especially the Police in bringing the perpetrators to book to prevent a reoccurrence in the last week of campaign ahead of the Saturday polls. The statement said: “We want to use this medium to reiterate our call to the Police to arrest all the SDP goons who carried out the attack on our campaign train on Saturday that led to the death of our party member, Tope Ajayi and left many others seriously injured. “We urge the Police to invite Hon. Bimbo Daramola and all the aforementioned SDP hoodlum to state all they know about the attack and heartless bloodshed and unimaginable orgy of violence they perpetrated at Itaji Ekiti. “The blood of Tope Ajayi is crying for justice and everything legally possible must be done to bring his killers to justice. The SDP and its bloodthirsty henchmen are jittery, they are already sensing defeat on Saturday and that was why they resorted to violence. “How can they commit such a heinous act and expect us to keep quiet. We won’t keep quiet until justice is done to the deceased and the injured. That is the debt we owe these victims of the SDP bestiality and savagery. “We have seen Hon. Daramola’s failed attempt to extricate himself from the crime he and his band of roughnecks committed against our party members and the rest is left for the security agencies to unravel. “Did Hon. Bimbo Daramola address the matter of the APC member, Tope Ajayi, who was murdered in cold blood? Hon. Bimbo Daramola admitted being at the scene of the crime and he admitted that the APC flatbed vehicle broke down. “We believe Hon. Bimbo Daramola would have more to tell the Police on the Itaji Ekiti attack. We want the Police to do a thorough investigation and we are ready to supply evidence needed to assist them in getting justice for our members.” 