 In a dramatic move on Thursday, a former Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, finally withdrew from the 2023 governorship race in Enugu State. He said he took the decision after consulting widely with the elders of the Peoples Democratic Party as well as friends and respected elders across the country and beyond. His withdrawal brought to end days of speculation after he withdrew from the PDP primary election in the state. There have been reports that he was making moves to join the All Progressives Congress in order to actualize his ambition. But on Thursday, Ekweremadu issued a personal statement where he congratulated the winner of the PDP gubernatorial primary, Peter Mba. In the statement titled, “Time to unite; Ndi Enugu”, Ekweremadu said, “My dear friends, associates, and well-wishers, I know you have been waiting to hear from me. You have expressed to me individually and collectively your readiness to take a long journey with me to actualise our vision on whatever platform. I have deeply reflected on it all with a good sense of history, including my political history, and the need for the unity and peace of our state. No sacrifice will be too much. Therefore, I have come to a decision. Please, bear with me if my decision does not meet your expectations. I call for your understanding. “After consulting widely with the elders of our party as well as well-meaning friends and respected elders across the country and beyond; “After a long and painstaking introspection on our contributions to the development of the PDP; “After considering the current security situation in the South East region and the need not to put anybody in harm’s way by a foreseeable combustive political environment, as my ambition is not worth the life of any Enugu son or daughter; “After considering that the things that hold us together as Ndi Enugu will ultimately outlive the treacheries of the moment; “After receiving assurances from the gubernatorial candidate of our party, Barr. Peter Mba, that he would integrate our “Pathway to a New Enugu State” in his programme and his assurances of the participation of everybody in his campaign team and government; “I, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, hereby formally withdraw from the 2023 gubernatorial contest in Enugu State. I congratulate Barr. Peter Mba and wish him success.” 