 BY BRIGHT JACOB The controversial storming of the convention venues of the All Progressives Congress and the People’s Democratic Party by officials of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has continued to raise questions among election observers about the propriety of the anti-graft body undertaking a mission that recorded zero arrests and yielded no favourable outcomes. In a commando fashion, more than 20 EFCC officials, both plain-clothed and vest-wearing, had invaded the velodrome of the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abuja, venue of the May 28 Special National Convention of the PDP. The officials who arrived around 4:30 pm, were reported to have quickly spread themselves among the delegates and were thought to be on the lookout for dollars exchanging hands between aspirants and delegates. In one interview, the spokesperson of the EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren, said the operatives were there to observe proceedings at the convention. No arrest was made at the venue. However, the PDP cried blue murder, insisting that its members were hounded by agents of the ruling party to intimidate them. Probably trying to assuage the fears of Nigerians, the EFCC also stormed the venue of the APC convention at the Eagle Square, Abuja, but like the scenes that played out at the Velodrome, no arrest was made at the Eagle Square, as well. Sharing his thoughts about the actions of the Abdulrasheed Bawa-led EFCC, a financial and economic expert, who is also a political analyst, Dr Umar Ndagi, told The Point that the storming of the venues was “more like a media storm” which did not achieve anything. He said money was not usually shared at convention venues, but at the hotels where delegates were lodged. Ndagi deemed the action of the EFCC to be tantamount to a “publicity stunt” meant to portray the Commission as “doing something”. He said money would have exchanged hands, but nobody has been arrested. He called the invasion“propaganda.” “That (storming of venues by EFCC) is more like a media storm, because it’s not meant to achieve anything. Monies are usually not shared at the venues of the convention. Monies are usually shared at the hotel rooms,” Ndagi stated. Continuing, he said, “Nobody bribes delegates at the convention ground. So, it’s just a publicity stunt to let it look as if they’re doing something, but apparently, it’s not meant to achieve anything. Money exchanged hands, but who was arrested? Neither the giver nor the receiver has been arrested, or have you heard of any arrest? It’s just propaganda, let it not look as if they are not doing anything,” he said. Asked whether there was any other means the EFCC could have employed instead of storming the venues, Ndagi said there was none. He traced this to “Nigeria’s democratic structure” where an individual like the president was given so much power to the detriment of accountability. Ndagi submitted that starting from the president, the excessive powers enjoyed by elective officers should be eliminated to reduce the influence of money in the electoral process. “There’s is absolutely no means the EFCC could have employed (to address delegates’ inducement at venues) because the Nigerian democratic structure gives so much power to whosoever the president is without accountability. So, wherever you can abuse your power, you can abuse your remit of office without any sense of accountability or responsibility. “By the time we eliminate all this excessive power that is domiciled to a president, that is when you will see the influence of money being reduced. But as it stands now, I’m sorry, there’s nothing anybody can do. “The entire process will continually be monetized until the president can be elected just to go and do his work like any other civil servant without expecting anything,” he argued. As an economist himself, Ndagi said one of the major effects of money changing hands to influence outcomes of party conventions was on the exchange rate of the naira. According to him, the naira obtained and converted to dollar causes a spike (in the demand for dollar) making its price to “skyrocket”. His words: “The major effect is actually on the exchange rate because….get this naira and convert them to dollars…that will make the demand for dollars to spike and you know in basic economics, once there is too much demand, it means the price of a particular product will skyrocket. “They (politicians) have succeeded in pushing the dollar beyond N600…that is the major effect…it has weakened the naira now, and you know in Nigeria, anything that goes up hardly comes down.” Asked to rate the effort of the chairman of EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa, in the fight against corruption, Ndagi said he usually prefers to be shy about such questions, and would rather give his assessment after the end of their tenure to avoid getting “carried away”. He stated that the former Accountant General of the Federation was a clear reminder you shouldn’t judge a book by its cover. In his opinion, Bawa was a young man with so much potential, but who could be restricted because of the nature of his appointment. “I am very careful when I have to assess public officers….you know, until after their tenure…because you could easily get carried away by someone. Like the former Accountant General of the Federation, if they had not discovered this N80 billion fraud, he would have gone down in history as one of the best Accountants General of the Federation without people really knowing (about his deeds). “Bawa is a young man. He is in his forties and I want to believe that there would be room for him to do things. But sincerely, I’m not expecting anything so much from him because his appointment was facilitated by politicians, and politicians, whatever they give to you with the left hand, would definitely demand the same with the left hand. “So far, I am not really impressed because I have not seen them preventing corruption. Though they go after corrupt persons here and there and after two or three days, somebody is bailed, like what happened to the former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission. That one has already been released on bail and the next thing is when they eventually go to court, the long list of adjournments will follow,” he said. Proffering solutions to how corruption could be curbed, Ndagi said it was important the system was “worked” on so that all the “loopholes” that gave politicians unrestricted access to funds were blocked. He cautioned against the “post mortem” approach usually adopted by the EFCC where crime was allowed to take place before they went after the criminals, saying “nothing will be achieved because nothing can be recovered that way.” Ndagi further stated that it was time the National Assembly worked to ensure that all loopholes were “blocked to a reasonable extent,” and mooted the idea of “the digitization of the entire process” to ensure that the fight against corruption was done “at the source”. Asked whether the inducement of delegates by aspirants should be specifically included into the Electoral Act as a punishable offense, Ndagi said there was nothing “we don’t have in law.” He stressed that the problem we have was a lack of capacity to implement laws. He advocated a stakeholder’s enlightenment campaign where all necessary parties would be educated on the importance of improving on the “leadership recruitment process.” “Is there anything we don’t have in law? Even giving bribes is an offense and is a criminal offense. We have a law for it. But do we have the capacity for implementing that law? “Whether you include it in the Electoral Act or not, is another waste of time, because we don’t have the capacity to implement a law. “EFCC was acting on law, and that was why they could go there (conventions), but they couldn’t do anything. “We need to have a real, robust stakeholder’s engagement. The politicians should be engaged, those potential delegates should be spoken to and let people see the need to improve on the leadership recruitment process such that the system can throw up efficient and effective leaders that have not necessarily induced their ways into leadership,” he said. 