 President Muhammadu Buhari may dissolve his cabinet any moment from now in a bold move to bring new vigour to governance within the remaining days of his administration. The Point gathered that the president is expected to announce a new cabinet lineup soon, which must be approved by the Senate. On Tuesday, the Senate received seven new nominees from President Buhari for consideration and confirmation as Ministers. Their nomination was contained in a letter addressed to President of Senate, Ahmad Lawan, and read at plenary on Tuesday. Buhari in the letter listed the ministerial designates to  include: Henry Ikechukwu (Abia), Umana Okon-Umana(Akwa-Ibom), Ekuma Joseph  (Ebonyi), Goodluck  Obia (Imo) Umar Ibrahim(Kano),
Ademola Adewole (Ondo), Udum Odi (Rivers). Buhari said it was his expectation to receive the usual expeditious consideration and confirmation of the nominees by the Senate. Six ministers had resigned to contest for primaries of the All Progressives Congress, following a directive from the president at the council meeting. They included the then Ministers of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio; Science, Technology and Innovation, Ogbonnaya Onu; Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development, Uche Ogah, Minister of State, Education, Emeka Nwajiuba and Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Tayo Alasoadura. The 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria provided that each of the 36 states is represented in the federal cabinet. One of the nominees, Henry Ikechukwu Ikoh, is from Ahuwa Oboro in Ikwuano Local Government Area of Abia State. He was a former commissioner for Industry in the State and founder of Harmony Foam Nigeria Limited. The Akwa Ibom State nominee, Umana Okon Umana, was a former managing director/chief executive officer of the Oil and Gas Free Zone Authority. He has over 25 years’ experience in Public Finance and Management. He was a Director of Budget; Permanent Secretary Budget and Commissioner for Finance in Akwa Ibom State. He was also a past Secretary to Akwa Ibom State Government. The ministerial nominee from Ondo State, Ademola Adewole Adegoroye, is a lawyer and an Akure prince who showed interest in the vacant stool of the Deji of Akure in 2010 but lost out. He was a lawmaker representing Akure South Constituency 1 on the platform of the Alliance for Democracy in the House of Assembly in Ondo State in 1999. Ekumankama Joseph Nkama, was a former Commissioner of Investment and Abuja Liaison in Ebonyi State. Goodluck Nanah Opiah was a former Speaker of the Imo State House of Assembly and a former member representing Ohaji/Egbema, Oguta, Oru West in the Federal House of Representative. He represented Ohaji/Egbema constituency in the Imo House of Assembly from 2003 to 2011. He is currently the Special Adviser/Coordinator to the Imo State Governor on Oil and Gas matters. Umar Ibrahim El-Yakub is the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (House of Representatives). An APC stalwart from Kano State, El-Yakub was a member of the House of Representatives between 2003 and 2007 representing Kano Municipal Federal Constituency. 