 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar’s choice of Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa as his running mate ahead of the 2023 presidential election was inspired by God and was the renewed hope that will lead Nigeria to development. Managing Director/CEO, Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission, Bashorun Askia Ogieh, disclosed this in a press statement titled ‘Okowa: Renewed Hope for Nigeria’. The statement reads, “At a time the nation needs a new beginning after the prolonged years of locust and deprivation by the current APC administration, the choice of His Excellency, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa, governor of Delta State, signals the renewal of hope that our dear country is primed to return to the path of development. “The decision of His Excellency, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, former Vice President of Nigeria, and presidential flagbearer of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), is indeed divinely inspired and demonstrates that despite the missteps of the past seven years, God has grand plans for Nigeria. “Those plans will be given vent by Senator Okowa as Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. After changing the landscape of Delta State in the past seven years through his innovative infrastructural projects, radical reforms effected in the health and education sectors as well as the successful entrepreneural programmes that have made many youths employers of labour, Nigerians are now poised to experience a new dimension in the provision of dividends of democracy. “Sen. Dr. Okowa will strengthen the credentials of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as presidential flagbearer of the PDP as the vehicle for rescuing the country and delivering the real change Nigerians crave. We thank Alhaji Abubakar for his inspired choice. “To my leader and Governor of Delta State, Sen. Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, the Almighty God has thrust on you the task of tagging along with Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to lift Nigeria and Nigerians out of poverty and under development. And we know He will guide you to accomplish the assignment,” he stated. 