.Bello remains the people’s hero – Campaign Organisation
.Victory well deserved – Sanwo-Olu
.Should have gone to S/East – Afenifere
. APC’s 2023 chances brighter – Lawan  BY TIMOTHY AGBOR AND MAYOWA SAMUEL Expectedly, mixed reactions have continued to trail the emergence of former Lagos State Governor and a national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, as the presidential flag bearer of the party in the 2023 general elections. Tinubu, on Wednesday emerged winner of the shadow presidential election of the ruling party after he polled 1,271 votes of the 2,114 accredited delegates in Abuja to defeat other aspirants. While there’s been avalanche of congratulatory messages, the Yahaya Bello Campaign Organisation described the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, who was one of the aspirants as the hero of the APC presidential primary election and of oppressed Nigerians. According to a statement on Wednesday by Yemi Kolapo, the Director, Media and Publicity of the Campaign Organisation, the Special Convention was highly compromised despite its peaceful process. The organization argued that Bello is the hero of the process and has made his point loud in the face of gang-up by Northern governors and leaders against his aspiration. She said, “The All Progressives Congress’ presidential primary elections have come and gone. The process was largely peaceful but highly compromised. This is however not new in a country where democracy is defined as the government of the oppressors by the oppressors and for the oppressors. “It is sad to note that those who should know and who many progressives had thought of as leaders with integrity are the ones working against the people they were (s)elected to represent for egocentric reasons. “In this process, one leader stands out, according to the majority of Nigerians. And that leader is one that has proven to the downtrodden and those regarded as “Nigerians without surnames”, that regardless of age-long intimidation by the elite, the best of our people can stand tall without compromising the values that we should have been known for as a nation,” the organization noted. Nevertheless, Governor Yahaya Bello joined the army of well-wishers to congratulate Tinubu. Kolapo in a statement said the Kogi Governor “has accepted the outcome of the primaries and would give the needed support to ensure the victory of the flag bearer and the ruling party in the 2023 presidential election.” Lagos State Governor, Babjide Sanwo-Olu, speaking to The Point through the Commissioner for information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, hailed the victory as well deserved. “He’s highly deserving of it, he worked for it and he got it. It’s not just a victory for him; it’s a victory for the party and democracy because of the transparency that was displayed there. He’s a very strong hand, there’s nobody that’s going to represent the party in a way that the party will be proud of him, in a way that Lagosians will be proud of him, he’s a worthy leader,” he said. For the Afenifere leader, Ayo Adebanjo, the ticket ought to have gone to the South East. He said, “I’m not a supporter of any candidate from the South West. My view is that it should go to the South East. It’s a matter of principle. That’s why we are destroying Nigeria. We are talking about the unity of Nigeria, not parochialism. Have you not had your own turn? Has Obasanjo not had? Has Jonathan not had? Is South East not in the South? That’s the principle. Until you go back to that, you will never get peace in the country,” he argued. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, who incidentally was also an aspirant for the ticket declared that with Tinubu’s emergence, the chances of the ruling party retaining power at the centre have been made brighter. In a letter of congratulation that he personally signed, Lawan said the outcome of the election process had shown that Tinubu was the popular choice of his party. “I am elated and proud that the presidential primary was manifestly free and fair, and conducted within our APC Family under a most convivial atmosphere. “The outcome of the election process has shown that Your Excellency is the popular choice of our party for that assignment. “I have no doubt that with your credentials, experience, antecedents and political sagacity, our great party will go into the 2023 contest confident of victory.” 