Ihedioha, Uduaghan, Emmanuel, Obaseki, Okowa also make list  The Director-General of the World Trade Organisation, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, is top on the chart of those being considered to be the running mate of Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, investigations by The Point have revealed. Atiku emerged the PDP’s flag bearer last Saturday in Abuja when he defeated Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike and former Senate President, Bukola Saraki and others to pick the sole slot. Atiku who was the PDP’s candidate in the 2019 presidential election, polled 371 votes while his closest challenger, Wike, garnered 237 votes and Saraki polled 70 votes to place third. Expectedly, barely 24 hours after the exercise, the jostle for Atiku’s running mate for 2023 blew open with the names of some governors of the party, especially those from the South-South and the South-East, including other chieftains of the party featuring prominently. A reliable source told The Point on Wednesday that “all discussions on the subject have been put in abeyance until certain political developments are sorted out.” The source, however, revealed that the Delta-born international economist and financial expert is ahead of others in the consideration for the post. Others said to be on the list for consideration include former Deputy Speaker of House of Representatives, Emeka Ihedioha, former Governor of Delta State, Emmanuel Uduaghan, Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State and Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, among others. The source maintained that they are many but the attention is strictly focused on the South East and South South for now. Pressed for the possible reason why Okonjo-Iweala would suddenly lead the pack, the source revealed that both Atiku and the WTO Director-General have fair knowledge of each other having worked in the same administration of former President Olusegun Obasanjo. It was also revealed that the name came in handy at a time when a lot of noise is being made by women to be given a chance to be the number two citizen of the country. “Apart from the fact that she is eminently qualified for the post, all things considered, the other facts are that both the Waziri and Ngozi worked in the same administration before during the time of President Olusegun Obasanjo. So, it wouldn’t be a situation of one studying the other for a long time or things like that. Again, the clamour for a woman to be given the opportunity to be the number two citizen of the country really is resonating with many people, not least of which is the PDP as a party and Waziri Adamawa himself as the candidate. Even if it is coming from the wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, what is good is good. It comes with a lot of positives. The other person who is closely following Ngozi is the former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Emeka Ihedioha, and that is because he is being pushed by his good friend, the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal. Recall that the governor played a decisive role in that primary and so, his choice is expected to remain very relevant. But like I said, all that is already put in abeyance for now until certain political developments are sorted out,” the source revealed. Another source explained that the choice of the former Nigerian Minister of Finance is to appease the South South and South East regions of the country. He equally added that a former President of the Nigerian senate and Secretary to the Government of the Federation during Goodluck Jonathan presidency, Anyim Pius Anyim, is also on the card. He however rationalized that Okonjo-Iweala stands a good chance “because she is married to an Ibo man and she is from Delta by birth. Asked why Okonjo-Iweala would opt out of a plum job as the WTO and become the running mate to a presidential candidate in Nigeria, the source queried “What is WTO beside the presidency in Nigeria?” “She is a good choice because of her international exposure. The international world will look at it as a good ticket because of her international standing. “Don’t forget that the support of the Western world always decides who becomes the president of Nigeria.” 