 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A 28-year-old-man, Oke Popoola, has been sentenced to nine-year-imprisonment for breaking into a house and carting away a power generating set, a motorcycle and some amount of money. A Chief Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State found Popoola guilty of conspiracy, house breaking and stealing. Police prosecutor, Inspector Temitope Fatoba, informed the court that the convict conspired with his friend, Abba Sanusi, and others at large to commit the offences. Popoola, who was arraigned alongside Sanusi on three-count-charge, pleaded guilty to the allegations while his 20-year-old-friend, Sanusi, entered into a not guilty plea. Temitope explained, during presentation of facts of the case, that Popoola broke into a residence occupied by one Matthew Kunle Oke at Kajola area, Osogbo at night, and stole a generator, a motorcycle and the sum of N900, 000. The charge against the convict and his friend read that “You, Oke Popoola and Abba Sanusi and others now at large, sometimes in the month of March 2022 at night time at Kajola area, Osogbo, Osun State in the Osogbo Magisterial district, did conspire among yourselves to commit felony to wit: burglary and stealing and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 516 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II, Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “You (defendants), on the same date, time, place and at the aforementioned Magisterial district, did break and enter into the dwelling house of Oke Mathew Kunle and committed a felony therein and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 411 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002. “You did steal one Elepaq generator valued at (the sum of) N435, 000; one Honda motorcycle valued at N550, 000; and cash sum of N900, 000, total valued at N1, 885,000, property of Oke Mathew Kunle, and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 383 and punishable under Section 390(9) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II, Laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002.” Chief Magistrate Sola Aluko sentenced Popoola to three years imprisonment on each of the three counts. The terms, he said, are to run concurrently.
Sanusi was remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre till June 28 for hearing. 