 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI The Ebonyi State Government has dragged a clearing company, Caftlink Global Logistics Nigeria Limited, to court for allegedly defrauding it of the sum of N236,768,735 (two hundred and thirty six million, seven hundred and sixty eight thousand, seven hundred and thirty five naira). The cargo clearing company owned by a Chinese, Atong Chen, allegedly defrauded the state government of the said sum allotted for clearing some articles stored in some imported containers. In the 242 containers meant to be cleared by the company are some elevators, escalators, tiles, lights and accessories, finishing materials, sanitary wares, 40 feet container of doors and sundry goods. The state government filed a suit against the company at a high court sitting in Abakaliki, presided over by Justice Chinyere Ken-Ezeh. The firm was alleged to have committed Advance Fee Fraud in a suit marked HAB/15c/2022. A total of 49 out of the 242 containers ordered by the Ebonyi State Government with Catflink Global are allegedly yet to be cleared and supplied to the state government since year 2020 despite the payment of clearing fee of N1, 169,347,600 (One billion, one hundred and sixty nine million, three hundred and forty seven thousand, six hundred naira) at N4, 832,015 average unit cost. In a written address, the Attorney General of the state, Cletus Ofoke, indicated that Chen, the owner of Caftlink Global Logistics Nigeria Limited, was engaged by the state government to clear and supply 242 containers of goods from Onne Port in Port Harcourt, Rivers State to the Ebonyi State Government on November 18, 2020, during which they made all payments via NIBSS electronic fund transfer NEFT to Atong Chen, but he failed to clear 49 out of the 242 containers as agreed. The state government arrested Peter Nnadozie- Ali, owner of Jude Kobe Cargo Limited, to whom Chen allegedly awarded part of the clearing contract after the breach of agreement. The court has remanded Nnadozie-Ali in the Nigeria Correctional Centre, Abakaliki. The case was adjourned till July 21 for adoption of written addresses. 