 BY BRIGHT JACOB The Peter Gregory Obi frenzy is taking over the entire country and has continued to dominate discourse in the polity. It started as a revolution whose fire the two dominant political parties in the country, the All Progressives Congress and the People’s Democratic Party, may find onerous to extinguish, and coupled with the ranks of the supporters of the former Anambra State Governor swelling by the day with personnel from those two parties. Obi was formerly of the PDP and one of the presidential aspirants on its platform. However, in a 180-degree turn, he resigned his position from the party, refusing to get involved with “money politics” and “gang-up” he alleged were rife in the party prior to the presidential primary. Unfazed with the backlash his exit generated, Obi found a new home with the Labour Party of Nigeria, and went on to clinch the presidential slot of the party. Because of his pedigree and track record as Governor of Anambra State and his untainted servant hood both in the private and public sector, a new generation of Nigerians from without the Labour Party have risen to make Obi’s presidential ambition a reality, and one of such people is Ogbeide Ifaluyi-Isibor, a PDP stalwart in Edo State. Asked why a PDP man was supporting a politician from another political party, Ogbeide, who is from Egor Local Government Area in Benin City and aspired for membership of the House of Representatives in 2016, made the clarification he was not just a PDP man, but “one of the pillars of the PDP in Edo State.” Ogbeide stated that he had been loyal to the cause of the PDP in the state and nationwide, but it was time “things were done differently” for the interest of the nation. He highlighted the instance he supported a candidate of the APC (Osagie Ize-Iyamu) during the last gubernatorial election in the state in 2020, and stated that the candidate, who was once the flag-bearer of the PDP at the polls in 2016, was the person he could trust, had confidence in and the kind of leader Edo State needed at the time. According to Ogbeide, Obi enjoys his support because every time Nigerians have bothered more about their party affiliations over tested and trusted candidates from other political parties, the nation “has not been better for it.” His words: “Well, I am not just a PDP man, I am one of the pillars of the PDP in Edo State. I’ve been a member, an active member of the party since 1999, when I had my membership card, and since then, I have participated at my Unit Level, at my Ward Level, at the LGA Level, at the State Level, and we do play significant roles during campaigns at the Federal Level. “So, my name is not a new name in the politics sector, especially at my state level. “We’ve done all anyone would want to do for a party to excel at every election, but this time, there’s a difference. The difference being that….and this is not the first time…in the last Edo election, I supported a candidate of the APC who was the candidate of the PDP in 2016, but in 2020, he moved to the APC and ran for office. “Against the wishes of my party members, I supported him because that was someone there I could trust, that was someone I had confidence in, that was someone I felt was the kind of leader I felt the state needed at the time, and having been in the PDP for so long and we felt he was cheated, and went to the APC, that was not a reason why I was going to support whoever the party had as a candidate, just because that’s your party’s candidate. “Even as party members, we have brains to think, and that is why this time, a lot of Nigerians, me inclusive, feel that they have gone round this cycle for too long, we have bothered mostly about our party for too long, and the nation is not better for it,” he said. Recalling the time he supported Atiku in 2019, Ogbeide said things have “retrogressed” in Nigeria since then. He absolved political parties of blame, stressing that parties are made of people. He said the bane people have was “getting the right leadership”. In his opinion, Obi was the man who could salvage the leadership conundrum. “I was a frontline Atiku supporter in 2019. We virtually gave our lives for Atiku in 2019, but this is 2023, and Nigeria has retrogressed in the last eight years, and I wouldn’t blame it solely on the political parties, because political parties are made up of individuals. It’s about us not getting the right leadership, that’s why we have continuously failed. “In 2023, there’s somebody who has given us hope. There’s somebody we have confidence in his leadership, there’s somebody we think cares about you in the situation we are in, and there’s somebody we think have the solution to the problems we are in, and that is Peter Obi.” Ogbeide further submitted that no matter whose ox was gored, there are hundreds and thousands of PDP members, who are staunch card-carrying members of the party across the country, supporting Obi. He cleared any misconception about the support, affirming it wasn’t just a “youth revolution,” but a movement even the older generation associated with. Ogbeide also said it was vital we left a nation we were proud of to our children, which in his assessment is one of the reasons why the Obi revolution “is taking everyone by surprise.” He dispelled any fears about Obi losing the election, and declared they supported other candidates in the past who did not win elections, and if Obi didn’t win, “we will not die.” “We want to bequeath a nation we are proud of to our children and grandchildren, and that is why the Peter Obi revolution is taking everyone by surprise, and it is not wise for anyone who has the love of Nigeria at heart to be unmindful of what is going on, and that is why I am in total support of Peter Obi. “And it’s not about whether he’ll win or not. No….I mean, we voted and supported Goodluck Jonathan in 2015, did he win? We voted and supported Atiku in 2019, did he win? If we support Obi in 2023 and he doesn’t win, we will not die. So, it is not about the desperation to become president, but the desperation to see Nigeria move forward,” he said. Asked whether his decision to support a candidate from another party didn’t equate to anti-party activity, Ogbeide said anti-party activity was just “semantic” which means nothing. He declared that it was more important we found a person who had the solutions to the country’s problems, and made him or her the leader.
He chided leaders of political parties “who were free to dance like a pendulum from party to party” but who would castigate their followers for daring to do same. “Anti-party activities are just semantics. It really means nothing. What do you mean “anti-party”? The nation is going through a crisis, we are going through a traumatic situation, the lives of Nigerians have been on the edge for decades, and we are talking about anti-party (activity)? “If there’s a person who can deliver the country, who has the capacity, the knowledge and exposure to save us, but just because he comes from a different party, are we not going to make him a leader? “In any case, Obi just became a member of the Labour Party. So, the blood of the PDP still flows in him. Atiku left the PDP and went to the APC. He came back to the PDP and went to the APC. He’s been dancing like a pendulum from party to party. So, if you want to talk about “anti-party”, who is actually being anti-party?,” he asked. Giving more insight, he said, “They (political leaders) only bring up this case of anti-party when it comes to the followers. When political figures shift from party to party, it is okay. Nobody talks about it, but they get angry when their followers switch and go to a different platform, and the overall interest for me is about the country, it’s not about the PDP.” The frontline politician who said his membership of the PDP was still sacrosanct however said he would dissociate himself from PDP candidates who decide to “include Atiku in their campaign,” as the people would vote against them because of the revolution. “I’m still a member of the PDP. I was talking to my senatorial candidate yesterday (Tuesday) from the PDP, and I assured him that I am supporting Peter Obi and I support you, too. “But the problem or challenge we are going to have is having to campaign….have your campaign, an issue-based campaign, and please do not include Atiku in your campaign because the people will vote against you because they have seen a revolution, they have seen a need for a change, that’s the whole idea,” he retorted. 