Challenges Nigerians on heroes of democracy Pleads with candidates to treat opponents with dignity  President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday reassured Nigerians that he would ensure a free, fair and transparent electoral process in the country. The president stated this in a nationwide broadcast as part of the activities to mark the 2022 Democracy Day in Abuja, “I am also promising you a free, fair and transparent electoral process. And I am pleading with all citizens to come together and work with government to build a peaceful and prosperous nation,” the president said. Buhari also expressed his administration’s commitment to protect Nigeria and Nigerians from all enemies from within and outside. The president revealed that the Federal Government had reformed the nation’s security structure with the hope of achieving the desired goals. “I know many of us are concerned with the rise in insecurity due to terrorist activities in parts of the country. “As a government, we are working hard to contain and address these challenges. And ensure that the 2023 general elections are safe and secure for all Nigerians. “To achieve this however, we must all contribute. It is not the job of government alone. “I ask all citizens to support and cooperate with our security agencies by reporting any suspicious characters and activities to law enforcement agencies. “We can only have a safe country if we are able to prevent crime not after the crime has been committed,” he said. Buhari called on citizens to offer special prayers for all victims of terrorist activities across the country. He said: “On this special day, I want us all to put all victims of terrorist activities in our thoughts and prayers. “I am living daily with the grief and worry for all those victims and prisoners of terrorism and kidnapping. “I and the security agencies are doing all we can to free those unfortunate countrymen and countrywomen safely.” Buhari further disclosed that the nation’s cyber security and surveillance systems had been upgraded to further enhance the ability to track and trace criminal elements across the country. He said: “We have reformed some of our security structures. Some of the defence assets we procured three years ago have arrived and have been deployed. “Our cyber security and surveillance systems are being upgraded to further enhance our ability to track and trace criminal elements.” The president announced that the Federal Government had also embarked on recruiting and training new personnel across all the nation’s security and intelligence agencies to strengthen the country’s over-all security. On those who had lost their lives as a result of the daredevil activities of terrorists and other criminals, the president pledged that his administration would continue to seek justice for their families against the perpetrators. He enjoined all citizens to support, unite and cooperate with security agencies in the ongoing fight against agents of terror and destruction in the country. “For those who have lost their lives, we will continue to seek justice for their families against the perpetrators. “For those currently in captivity, we will not stop until they are freed, and their kidnappers are brought to justice. “If we all unite, we will be victorious against these agents of terror and destruction,” he said. Challenges Nigerians on heroes of democracy President Buhari also charged Nigerians never to forget the sacrifices of the heroes of Nigeria’s democracy during 1993 electoral process. He maintained that the patriotism and peaceful struggle of these heroes should serve as guide in electing new leaders and holding them accountable. “We must never forget the sacrifices of the heroes of Nigeria’s democracy during 1993. “Their patriotism and peaceful struggle should guide our actions, especially when it comes to electing our leaders and holding them accountable, now and in future,” he said. The president, who is presiding over the last Democracy Day celebration as the second tenure of his administration expires on May 29, 2023, expressed determination to ensure that ”the new President is elected through a peaceful and transparent process”. He said: “Fellow Nigerians, this is my last Democracy Day speech as your President. By June 12, 2023, exactly one year from today, you will already have a new President. I remain committed and determined to ensure that the new President is elected through a peaceful and transparent process. “It is important for all of us to remember that June 12th, 2023, will be exactly 30 years from the 1993 Presidential elections. “In honour and memory of one of our national heroes for democracy, Chief M.K.O Abiola, we must all work together to ensure this transition is done in a peaceful manner.” The president expressed optimism that the forthcoming general elections in 2023 would be conducted smoothly to ensure peaceful transition. He lauded the recent peaceful conduct of party primaries by political parties where they selected their candidates for the general elections in 2023. “I am hopeful that we can achieve this. The signs so far are positive. Recently, all registered political parties conducted primaries to select their candidates for the 2023 general elections. “These primaries were peaceful and orderly. Those who won were magnanimous in their victories. Those who lost were gracious in defeat. And those aggrieved opted to seek judicial justice as opposed to jungle justice. “I followed the party primaries closely from the state level to the Presidential level. I was very impressed to see across all the political parties that, most candidates ran issue based campaigns. “The language and tone throughout were on the whole measured and controlled. “As we move into the general election campaign season, we must sustain this mature attitude to campaigning and ultimately, voting. “We must never see it as a ‘do-or-die’ affair. We must all remember democracy is about the will of the majority. There must be winners and losers,” the president admonished. Pleads with candidates to treat opponents with dignity In same vein, President Buhari has urged political parties candidates to continue running issue-focused campaigns and to treat opponents with dignity, saying politics should never be seen as ”do-or-die” affair. The Nigerian leader commended the leaderships of the nation’s political parties for the smooth conduct of their parties’ primary elections. “I will therefore take this opportunity on this very special day to ask all candidates to continue running issue-focused campaigns and to treat opponents with dignity. “As leaders, you must all showcase high character and never forget that the world is watching us and Africa looks up to Nigeria to provide example in governance. “The tone you set at the top will surely be replicated in your followers,” he said. The president particularly noted with delight the significant increase in women and youth participation in the primaries, saying this trend should be sustained and improved upon in forthcoming electoral exercises, including the 2023 general elections. “Another positive that came from the 2022 party primaries was the significant increase in women and youth, particularly across all parties. I was very pleased to see this development. “This augurs well for the future. These trends clearly show the level of maturity our democracy has achieved in the last 23 years. “As we move into the general election campaign season, we must sustain this mature attitude to campaigning and ultimately, voting. We must never see it as a ‘do-or-die’ affair. “We must all remember democracy is about the will of the majority. There must be winners and losers,” he maintained. The Nigerian leader reassured voters that adequate measures had been put in place to safeguard their votes during the forthcoming elections in the country. He said his administration had made significant investments to reform and enhance nation’s electoral laws, systems and processes to safeguard their votes. The president, therefore, expressed the commitment of the Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary to ensure the successful implementation of the ongoing reforms of the electoral laws. “For the voters, I am pleased to inform you that in the last 7 years, our government across all tiers, has made significant investments to reform and enhance our electoral laws, systems and processes to safeguard your votes. “The Executive, Legislature and Judiciary were and still remain united and committed to ensure these reforms are fully implemented in the 2023 general elections. “Fellow Nigerians, your right to choose your government will be preserved and protected.” (NAN) 