 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Indigenes of Ile-Ife, Osun State, the host community to Obafemi Awolowo University, on Monday, dispelled speculation in some quarters that they were planning to distrupt the inauguration of Professor Adebayo Simeon Bamire as the 12th substantive Vice Chancellor of the university. The management of the university, through a release by its Public Relations Officer, Abiodun Olarewaju disclosed that the leadership of various unions of indigenes of the ancient town had assured invited guests for the inauguration that there wouldn’t be any form of protest. The statement assured the general public, particularly those who have been specially invited to the inauguration slated to hold on Tuesday, that the campus environment was cool, calm and conducive for the programme, even as adequate security preparation had been put in place to forestall any untoward occurrence. It urged the staff, students, the entire university community, guests and other stakeholders to disregard, in its entirety, any release threatening to disturb the peace and tranquility of OAU during the inauguration. “This is sequel to a press statement by the Ife Community Assembly, dated 5th June, 2022, titled: “RE: OAU VC Inauguration Ceremony – Appeal For Calm: The Suspended Protests Remain Suspended” and signed by comrade Lawrence Awowoyin, J.P,  President, Ife Development Board; Dr. Gbolade Famoriyo, President, Ife Progressive Forum; Comrade O. Oyeyinka, President, Great Ife Movement, and their  General Secretaries: Rotimi Omisakin, Agbeke Odunmorayo and L. Adewale, a copy of which was directly sent to the university management via the public relations officer. “According to the statement: “Consequently, on behalf of Ife Community, it is hereby declared that no protest in whatever form on the subject under reference is authorised now in Ile – Ife. “We welcome all invited guests/persons to the inauguration of the 12th substantive OAU Vice Chancellor, assuring them of peaceful atmosphere and security, before, during and after the ceremony,” the statement read. The outgoing Vice Chancellor, Professor Eyitope Ogunbodede, who would be handling over to Professor Bamire has commended the Ife Community Assembly and urged the university community and Ile Ife community to live in peace and maintain their age-long cordiality. “Professor Ogunbodede thanked everybody who has contributed, one way or the other, to the overall success of his administration. He, also, pleaded for more support from the University stakeholders for his successor so that OAU will attain much greater heights and be one of the leading institutions of higher learning in Africa,” the statement further disclosed. Recall that some Ife indigenes had in March this year, protested the appointment of Bamire and alleged manipulation. The protesters had carried rituals within the campus and attacked some students and staff of the university during the violent demonstration. Concerned stakeholders across the country had lambasted the protesters for invading the university with charms and other fetish objects. The school had remained shut over this incident coupled with ongoing strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities. 