 The Board of Directors of Chemical and Allied Products Plc, has announced the appointment of Babs Omotowa as an Independent Non-Executive Director effective June 17, 2022. Omotowa is a consummate global leader in Upstream and Midstream Oil and Gas Industry, with an extensive executive career across several companies in several continents. He has extensive experiences in C-Suite (CEO), board, and advisory roles in several multi-billion-dollar businesses, in established and emerging energy sectors. Omotowa was the Managing Director/CEO of Nigeria LNG Limited for almost five years from December 2011 to September 2016 where he achieved 65 percent growth in revenue to $40bn and 70 percent rise in returns, raising $2bn international financing to build 6 new LNG ships. Prior to joining Nigeria LNG, Omotowa served in different capacities including Special Adviser to Shell Global Upstream, Vice President of Shell Global Upstream E&P, Vice-President Shell Sub-Saharan Africa, Director and General Manager at Shell Petroleum Development Company, amongst others. He currently sits on the boards of West African Gas Pipeline Company, The Nigerian Economic Summit Group and Pearlhill Technologies, LLC (an American LLC, leading innovative technologies for a cleaner world and positively impacting on climate change). Additionally, he is the Chairman, Advisory Board of Montserrado Group, and the global president of 100,000 UK Chartered Institute. Omotowa is currently studying for his DBA (Doctor of Business Administration) from Edinburgh Business School (2020 to 2026), he obtained an MBA from University of Leicester (2002). He has attended several leadership programmes including the Leadership Development Programme from INSEAD (2015), Senior Leadership Development Program from IMD Business School (2012) and General Manager’s Programme from Harvard University (2003). Kayode Garrick retires as Independent Non-Executive Director from the Board of the Company effective June 16, 2022. In accepting Garrick’s resignation, the Board deeply appreciated Garrick’s dedication, commitment, and service to CAP PLC in the last nine years and wished him all the best for the future. 