Tinubu’s emergence will herald new Nigeria, says support group  BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress has appealed to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amechi, Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, Senate President, Ahmed Lawan and others who contested the presidential ticket of the party recently to team up with winner, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in the forthcoming general elections. The chairman of the party in Osun State, Gboyega Famodun, on Thursday, gave the charge in a statement issued by Kola Olabisi, media adviser to the chairman in Osogbo. According to Famodun, if other contenders of the ticket team up with Tinubu, the party’s chances at the presidential election would be brighter. “I want to appeal to all the other presidential aspirants who slugged it out with Asiwaju Tinubu in the fiercely contested primary election  to work as a team with the APC presidential candidate in the next year’s election,” he said. Congratulating Tinubu on his emergence as the flagbearer of the party’s 2023 presidential election, Famodun stated that the result of the presidential election was an indisputable fact that Tinubu is a master political strategist and the doyen of partisan politics in Nigeria. The chairman explained further that the victory of Tinubu in the election is an indication that he is widely acceptable to the highest percentage of the people of this country. He also stated that the emergence of Tinubu was a pointer to the fact that he has been using his God-given endowments and resources to develop human beings irrespective of tribe, religion or social standing in the society. Famodun who enjoined other privileged Nigerians to learn a good lesson from Tinubu’s ways of life reminded all and sundry that there will always be a pay back time for whatever one does in life. He disclosed that the high number of the APC presidential aspirants was an indication that the party is strong and potent and imbued with the membership of so many credible Nigerians. “On behalf of my family, all the members of our party in Osun State and state executive members of our party, I congratulate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his emergence as the presidential flagbearer of our party. “Indeed, there are lots of lessons to be learnt from the exercise that hardwork, tenacity of purpose and  humanitarian services are essential attributes of a good leader. “To say that Asiwaju really worked and merited his success at the polls is not an overstatement. “Let this be a good lesson to the younger elements that there are a lot of goodies in using one’s resources to develop fellow human beings”, Famodun counselled. The state party chairman also extended his appreciation to the exemplary conduct of the state delegates at the party’s convention, describing them as worthy ambassadors of our state. Famodun also reminded all the members of the party in the state to get prepared for the resumption of the suspended campaigns for the reelection of Governor Gboyega Oyetola in the July 16, 2022 governorship election. Meanwhile, the Osun State “BAT Project 23” has described the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as one which would herald a new Nigeria rooted in national unity and democratic development. The Pro-Tinubu group disclosed this in a statement signed by its state coordinator, Akeem Adebisi and made available to The Point by its Public Relations Officer, Miftau Adekunmi Adebowale. The sociopolitical group routing for a Tinubu Presidency noted that his victory is a testament to his long-standing resilience and inimitable political stature which have made him distinguishable factor in national politics. “We heartily congratulate our principal, Asiwaju Bola Ahmad Tinubu on his emergence as the standard flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress in the just concluded special national convention. “It has never come so easily, as you have withered a lot of storms but your perseverance, tenacity and topnotch political capacity with which you have carved a niche for yourself in the current dispensation, has again worked for you. “We believe your emergence is a precursor to an imminent precipitations of unprecedented national unity, socioeconomic stability and democratic consolidation in Nigeria’s polity. “The conviction we hold is not unconnected to your fat democratic credentials and midas touch with which you have turned Lagos to an economic hub of the nation. “This will also bring an unparalleled formidability and cohesion to the structures of the party across board, for we are cocksure of your unifying and bridge-building capabilties which are already giving all party faithful an unblemished optimism. “As a body, we assure you of our unflinching commitment towards galvanizing massive supports base for your subsequent emergence in the general election, while we opine this is the similar resolve of other structures within the party,” the statement noted. 