 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The Federal Government, on Thursday clarified that the terror group, Islamic State of West African Province, was responsible for the killing of worshippers of St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, Owo, in Ondo State on Sunday. Disclosing this to State House Correspondents after the National Security Council Meeting, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday, the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, stated that the police has been ordered to go after the perpetrators and bring them to justice. The Minister said the imprint of ISWAP was found at the scene of the attack, vowing that they will be brought to Justice. He, however, said the aim of the terror attack, was to cause ethno-religious crisis in the country. On his part, the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, disclosed that 10,000 additional police officers will graduate next month to be added to the security architecture immediately. He added that the police will be leading other security agencies to monitor the June 18, 2022 elections in Ekiti State. Meanwhile, the Federal Government has declared Monday, June 13, 2022, as a public holiday, to mark this year’s Democracy Day celebration. Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Interior, Shuaib Belgore who made this known in a statement issued on Thursday in Abuja said the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, made the declaration on behalf of the Federal Government. The minister congratulated Nigerians on the occasion and urged all citizens to support the administration in its efforts at ensuring a secured, united and prosperous nation. Aregbesola admonished Nigerians to use the occasion to reflect on the long journey the country has made towards the enthronement of a civil democratic order, before national Independence in 1960 till date and the sacrifices of our patriots. “He reminded Nigerians of the challenges we have faced and overcome, including a civil war, and said any form of agitation that threatens the unity of the country should be shunned for the good of all, saying the space known as Nigeria would be a haven of peace, unity and progress if all citizens love their neighbours and embrace the spirit of brotherliness. “As we mark another Democracy Day in the history of our dear country, let us reflect on the efforts of our founding fathers and ensure that Nigeria remains one united, secured, peaceful and an indivisible entity, noting that no development can take place in an acrimonious environment. “With the challenges we face in Nigeria today, I see an opportunity for us not to break up or break down, but to break open; open up to ourselves in truth so that we may appreciate each other, understand each other, honour each other and live together in peace and prosperity,” the statement added. The Minister advised Nigerians to judiciously put into use the recently unveiled Nigeria Internal Security and Public Safety Alert System (N-Alert) Mobile App designed to mitigate security challenges and other disasters with the slogan “See Something Do N-Alert”, in the usage of the Mobile App, which has been upgraded to meet with current challenges in the country. He assured that with the concerted efforts being put in place by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to secure the lives and property of Nigerians and stabilise the economy, the nation will continue to get better. Aregbesola enjoined Nigerians to keep faith with democracy, that though it might not have brought our best expectations, we should keep at it, knowing that practice makes perfect, and the alternatives are far worse and have proved ruinous and disastrous to the nation. “There will surely be light at the end of the tunnel,” he stated. 