Frank Kokori, a renowned unionist, is a member of the Board of Trustees of the All Progressives Congress and a former member of the defunct Social Democratic Party. He is also an elder statesman and community leader. In this interview with MAYOWA SAMUEL, he speaks about the performance of President Muhammadu Buhari in office, the country’s preparation for the next administration and the state of things in Delta State, among other issues. Excerpts:  The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari will end on May 29, 2023. How much of your expectations have his administration met? Well, he tried, he did his best, but his cardinal objectives were not fulfilled. The cardinal objectives of fighting corruption, giving us security, and improving the economy were not fulfilled. It was not all his fault, I think the circumstances of the world economy contributed to the economic aspect of it. But I’m disappointed that he did not fight corruption head-on because that was why we supported him. He pampered corrupt people and most of the people around him are corrupt, even though he said he’s not corrupt. The majority of his aides are very corrupt, that’s why I call them cabals and the cabals almost hijacked the government from him. The problems we have in Nigeria are because of the cabals that he couldn’t control. He was listening to the cabals more than listening to ordinary Nigerians. That’s why we have all these loads of problems. Notwithstanding, people like us who are patriots and freedom fighters, still believe that democracy is the best option in the world, for Nigeria in particular. So, we have to take it that he has done his best and we’ve seen his capability. He just has one year to go, so let’s hope the next man coming in will take up from there and do far better than what he has done. Now that you’ve mentioned insecurity, what’s your take on the president’s performance regarding the security of lives and property? Without security, there can be no economic development. The security situation is so dire, very bad. That’s my thought, as an elder statesman. Kokori is not an ex-military officer but if I become the president of Nigeria, I will perform better than the so-called general. Governing a country does not mean you must be a military officer. Military officers are very, let me say parochial. They are not exposed to politics and a lot of things that are happening in the world. They are mostly introverts, they are taciturn, and that’s their problem. That is why it’s not good for military officers to rule in a democracy, especially African military officers, not Western retired generals who are patriotic because most generals who retire in America and in Europe who become presidents are always great leaders. African leaders disgrace the continent, they are a disgrace to the race, because of their selfish ambition to acquire wealth. We have that problem but that does not mean retired generals are better administrators. Governing is patriotism and people are not born to be leaders. It’s not by going to military school. If you go to military school, you become a soldier, then you will fight as a soldier, to fight wars, that’s all. You are not to go into a democratic state. A good political leader should be a leader, when we see such people, we will know. When a man is a good leader, within the first year, we will see some differences; in two years, more differences; in three years, things would have improved greatly. So you don’t have to wait for seven years before you know the person is doing well. You were the National Secretary of the Social Democratic Party during the days of MKO Abiola. With the present state of the country, was this how you and other leaders then envisioned the country? What were the plans you people had for the country then? I was a freedom fighter, I was a union leader. I was the national financial secretary of the party at the same time. We did our best for our country. I made a lot of sacrifices to wrestle Nigeria from the military tyrants and normally, I suffered severe deprivation which all freedom fighters must be ready to do. That is part of the country’s history and my history. We had plans but Abiola was not allowed to execute his plans. Farewell to poverty in 1993 did not come into fruition because the man was not allowed to exercise his mandate. What Abiola wanted to do was prevented by the military and he could not perform his mandate. So, let’s leave that part of history for historians to handle. We have to start from the time of Obasanjo. Obasanjo was supposed to have laid a solid foundation for Nigeria with modern emergence in African politics and world politics. But I think he frittered it away. He tried his best but he never met most of our expectations because he was supposed to have handled the restructuring of this country. He didn’t do that, so that’s why we are still suffering up till today. Nigeria is over-centralised which is not good for a country with so much diversity. You mentioned poverty earlier. The World Bank said on Tuesday that one million more Nigerians will join the poverty bracket by the end of this year because of inflation. What do you think this portends for Nigeria in the nearest future? That’s why we have to take steps to stop it. A good leader does not need to beg you. Seeing predictions of international agencies, a good leader will work toward making the country a better one for his people. Agencies can predict anything they want but the solution lies with the country’s leaders. We have arable land, human and natural resources, we have everything. There are many countries that are 80 percent desert, they don’t have good land, they don’t have anything but they still managed, not to talk of Nigeria with everything but bad leadership and wrong leaders. In Nigeria’s case, how can you see a whole human being in Nigeria not being a world business or renowned person who has $1billion, half a billion dollars, or $200 million? They are all just stealing Nigeria’s commonwealth. The Academic Staff Union of Universities has been on strike for months, Colleges of Education started their own four-week strike on Tuesday. In fact, almost every association has gone on strike under the Buhari administration. What’s the reason for this government’s loss of regard for labour and trade unions? You fight for recognition, you fight for leadership. You make yourself who you are. In our own time, we made labour what it was. You have to make sacrifices. I made a lot of sacrifices. How many people now are ready to make sacrifices? They give people money, dollars. But during my time, I fought for my people. I was a leader for over 20 years, people were ready to die for me because they had my back and I had theirs too, I lived a humble life. You must make sacrifices, I suffered deprivations. People in Nigeria these days don’t want to spend one or two days in a cell or behind the counter. We spent years in very bad detention camps but we will come out and continue the same thing. We were just fighting for freedom for our people and at that time, workers were united and there were jobs everywhere. But these days, there are a lot of starved workers and there are no jobs. If they had jobs, they would be a little bit more courageous and honest. If you are very poor, your wife and children are dying, and suffering, you are jobless, you are tempted to take bribes. In my own time, 90 percent of people who were employable were employed because the government was liberal at that time. The country was good at that time and Nigeria had not descended to this subhuman level. A poor man tries to get a good job just by attending an interview. Then, you don’t have to pull strings that your father is this and that before they will interview you or reply to your application. When you apply for a job, you will be invited. We wasted all that because of bad leadership. We are suffering it today, we need a good leader to bring that back. No matter how bad it is, Nigeria can still rise again with good leadership. In 2019, you accused the Minister of Labour and former Anambra governor, Chris Ngige of oppressing you, after he omitted your name from the list of those to be inaugurated into the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund where the president named you as chairman-designate. How’s your relationship with the minister currently? The minister is among some of those Nigerians who found themselves in positions of power without working for it. I’m a man of integrity. I’ve fought for my country. I’ve been more useful to my country than Ngige and hundreds of them. I did much for my country. I could spearhead the fight for democracy in my country, being the arrowhead to fight the military junta for years, but you are talking of Ngige who never knew anything, just an opportunist. I’m not on the same level with him. I’ve never lied in my life since when I was a baby, my mother can attest to that. I lived a straight life, so don’t compare me with all those people. You are a member of the APC Board of Trustees. Tinubu is the presidential candidate of the ruling APC, Atiku Abubakar is the presidential candidate of the opposition PDP, and Peter Obi is the presidential candidate of the Labour Party. Where do you see the pendulum swinging to in 2023? Tinubu will win, obviously. Tinubu is a man of vision, so he will win. APC is grounded in every part of the country. Forget all those social media thoughts, social media does not win elections, that’s why Tinubu was able to find his way to win in a landslide. Atiku is too much of an establishment man. He is a good man but an establishment man. He has even struggled for freedom and democracy. He gets things easily without much struggle and sacrifice. But Tinubu has gone through it all. I want to say Tinubu is rich because if you don’t have money, you can’t fight the oligarchy. All over the world, without funds, you can’t fight dictatorship. So, he needed money too to fight the dictatorship. That is what some of us who did revolutionary studies know about. First, we just neglected that area of our struggle, how to make money and reserve them to help in struggles. Tinubu was a fighter but he was good at making money too for himself. That is what is helping him now to fight the establishment. I pray for him that he changes Nigeria because I know he’s a nationalist. Peter Obi is a good candidate, there’s no doubt about that but I don’t see him winning in any of the fringe parties. If he had been nominated by the PDP or the APC, he could have stood a better chance. He will try, no doubt, but he can’t win the election. He will make an impact. Maybe they are the third force. I just believe he will make an impact. Obi is a good man, he will be a good leader in Nigeria if given the chance. PDP has ruled Delta State since the return of democracy in 1999. In April, you, along with other national and state leaders of APC, issued a quit notice to the PDP in the state, stating that the state has been under bondage under their 23-year rule. You also expressed determination to ensure the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, takes over power and ousts the PDP.  What is the party going to do differently this time, to ensure this is achieved? The case of Delta State is very unfortunate. Delta State PDP rule is a disaster. There is nothing to show for it with the whole money they have. Delta gets four times what Edo State used to receive but they wasted everything. Come to Delta State, there is nothing. I think Wike is doing something in Rivers; Akwa-Ibom, they are doing something; but not Delta State. Even Cross River, with very slim resources, is doing far better than us. Our money is stolen and wasted by prodigal governors we’ve always had. Delta is a calamity, we have been very unfortunate but we pray that we have good leaders to rescue us and let’s hope that it changes. There is nothing to write home about. I’ve been in opposition here since I left the labour movement. They rig elections, bribe judges, bribe INEC, and they do everything. Getting political power here is very difficult. Everybody is bribed here. Delta is in rot now. But, let’s wait, we’ll fight for it, just that some of us are getting too old. We’ve done our best, we’ve just become the conscience of the people. That’s all that I’m doing, that’s to speak truth to the people, speak truth to government, speak truth to the leaders. I can’t be in the trenches any longer. I’ve done that for over 30 years of my life. I fought for my country, I spent so many years in different detentions across the whole country. But that is life and that is history. 