 Ahead of the 2023 general election, chieftains, leaders and members of the All Progressives Congress in Ogun Central Senatorial District, have donated vehicles and motorcycles to Governor Dapo Abiodun, as a form of support towards his second term bid in office. The governor equally received vehicles from the leadership of the Association of Local Government of Nigeria in the state. Receiving 10 Sports Utility Vehicles and 10 motorcycles from the Ogun Central APC and 3 SUVs from ALGON, on Thursday, Governor  Abiodun expressed delight at the gestures and thanked the donors. He said that his administration would not be bothered by architects of confusion in the state, but would continue to leave the doors of his administration open to all those who want to constructively engage with it. He added that he found it amusing and absurd that some people still fall prey to what he described as unfounded rumours and illusion that there is another governor aside his humble self. “It is very unfortunate what desperation and frustration can push people to do. We will not be distracted by the architectures of confusion, but we will continue to leave our doors open to those that want to constructively engage with us and join with us. “Those whose intentions are genuine that want to come back home and be part of our fold, I am using this medium to assure them that our doors are wide open. “For all those that have been confused, all those that have been deceived, all those that have been misled, I am sure, by now, things are very clear to them. There is only one governor in this state as there can only be one governor at a state at a time. By the grace of God, I am the only governor that Ogun State has, any other person or imposter is only doing a macabre dance”.  The governor said. Abiodun reiterated that all those who picked up forms for elective positions during the just concluded primaries of the party but did not receive the nomination would be compensated, adding that the administration in the state would continue to see them as stars of the party. “There are no winners or losers, we must consider all of us as winners because we are all members of one great party. we had about 182 aspirants aspiring to go to the House of Assembly of just 26 seats, over 85 were aspiring to go to the House of Representatived of just 9 nine seats. It further underscores the fact that our party has done very well, it is only in a party that has done very well that you find so many aspirants. “I can assure you that for all those that did not emerge, you remain our stars and our winners, we will find ways to compensate, to appreciate you and ensure that you remain relevant in the scheme of things politically. I do not want you to be discouraged,” he noted Abiodun said the latest statistics from the National Bureau of Statistics which revealed that the Ogun is ranked first in the percentage of people with employment in the country is no joke, explaining that the feat was only achievable because his administration went about it with its various policies centered around making the people of the state benefit a whole lot. “Two days ago, I saw some statistics from the National. Bureau of Statistics that showed the state in order of percentage of employment per state, in all the states in the country, we ranked first with 74% in the percentage of people employed, people who have jobs that occupy them about eight hours a day, the next state to us is with I think 66%. “It is not by accident, it is because we purposely worked for it and we went about it. In our first hundred days in office, we had a job portal in place which allowed us to harvest all those who were either under employed or unemployed and we began to match them with job opportunities we created. “We are building affordable homes and those homes are offering affordable homes to our indigenes as well as also giving our artisans, bricklayers, our welders, painters job opportunities, so, we are continuously looking for ways and means to create job opportunities,” he said. The governor, who assured members of the party in the state that his administration would continue to remain visible, said  his administration would continue to implement policies and programmes, inspect and commission projects across the state. Abiodun, however, said he was  inspired by the donations which he said is unprecedented in the state, commending the leaders and members of the All Progressives Congress in the Ogun Central Senatorial district and the Association of Local Government of Nigeria for their gesture. Earlier, a leader from the Ogun Central Senatorial district; Dipo Akingbade and the Chairman of the Association of Local Government of Nigeria who also doubles as the Chairman of Ijebu-Ode Local Government; Emilola Gazal, commended the governor for embarking on notable projects across the state. The Chairman of the party in the state, Yemi Sanusi said that the donation of the Sport Utility Vehicles and motorcycles by leaders of the party in the senatorial district is an attestation to the good work the governor is doing in the state. 