 A former Governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun, on Thursday organised a political rally in Abeokuta to mobilise support for the presidential ambition of Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress. Tinubu had emerged as the presidential candidate of the APC for the 2023 elections at the party’s presidential primary held in Abuja between June 6 and June 8. Amosun, who addressed a mammoth crowd at the Ake Palace in Abeokuta, said he organised the rally to motivate support for the election of Tinubu as Nigeria’s next president. The former governor who is also the Senator representing Ogun Central Senatorial District, explained that he sacrificed his presidential ambition and supported Tinubu  in the interest of the South West region in particular and Nigeria in general. “Our Yoruba elders had told us that if we really want the presidency to return to the South West region, we must look for a way to be united. “I have also told my close associates about two years ago that I desired to be president of the nation but that my ambition cannot supersede or override the general interest of the South West or the entire nation,” he said. Amosun, who eulogized the qualities of Tinubu, noted that he had the wherewithal to sustain the developmental stride of President Muhammadu Buhari and also take the nation to enviable height. He urged his supporters to extend their loyalty, support and prayers to Tinubu and the APC at large. “We do not have another country except Nigeria and I am sure Nigeria will be great. We all need to join hands and collaborate with and support Tinubu to succeed Buhari. “Tinubu will still move around the entire country to campaign and he will definitely come to Ogun and visit places like Ilaro, Ijebu, Abeokuta and other places to solicit your support. “Let us please support him to win the 2023 presidential election,” he said. The Ake Palace Ground was full to capacity with APC supporters from the 236 wards and 20 local government areas of the state. Among the party chieftains at the event were Derin Adebiyi, Abidoye Amosun (Alhaji Agba), Iyabo Anisulowo, Tolu Odebiyi, Biyi Otegbeye, Remi Adetayo, Biyi Adeleye and Muyiwa Oladipo. Also at the gathering were members of the State Working Committee consisting of Ogun Central Senatorial District Chairman, Moshood Akinyele, Ogun West Chairman Ademola Fadairo, Ogun East Chairman, Patrick Ogunde, State Organising Secretary Gbenga Adenmosun, State Publicity Secretary Wole Elegbede, State Auditor, Wole Adesiji, State Assistant Secretary, Kareem Iyanda, State Women leader, Olusola Awonuga and Director of Organisation, Raheem Ajayi. Other officers in attendance were Assistant State Organising Secretary, Segun Kehinde, Assistant Publicity Secretary, Ismaila Odejimi, Assistant State Financial Secretary, Olabisi Ayanwale, Ogun Central Senatorial Youth leader, Arole Sofela, Ogun Central Women Leader, Toyosi Anifowose and State Ex-Officio I, Olawale Azzez, Fatai Olusesi, Lai Olayiwola, Tosin Adeluyi, Mikky Kazeem and Bola Adeyemi. 