 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The African Bureau of the Trade Promotion Organization of Iran, says the Asian country considers Africa, specially Nigeria, as a precious economic partner. The Director-General of the organisation, Mohammad Sadeq Qannadzadeh, disclosed this on Tuesday at the Sixth Iran-Nigeria Joint Commission meeting. The Iranian official said the meeting witnessed Nigerian and Iranian officials discuss exchange of trade delegations, participation in exhibitions and facilitation of trade interactions. He pointed out that both countries enjoy economic, political and cultural commonalities and are both member states of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). Qnnadzadeh added that both nations are also members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), possess rich oil and gas reservoirs, and have more than 15 percent of shares of the Islamic Development Bank, but their bilateral economic and trade exchanges is not satisfactory. The official went on to say that statistics indicated that the volume of trade exchanges between Nigeria and Iran stood at about 125 million dollars last year, which seems to be a tiny figure in comparison with each country’s foreign trade of around 100 billion dollars per annum. “All necessary efforts to promote bilateral economic relations have been put on agenda, including activation of joint commissions, so the Sixth Iran-Nigeria Joint Commission is held today after eight years of pause,” he noted. “Remarkable accords and documents have been signed by both nations, which are going to be pursued by the joint commission,” Qannadzadeh said. He went on to add that new joint projects should become operational with the help of the governments and private sectors of both countries. On his part, the Nigerian Ambassador to Tehran Yakubu Santuraki Suleiman, expressed satisfaction at both side’s determination to develop bilateral ties, saying that he is optimistic that the joint commission meeting would help expand mutual economic relationship. The ambassador noted that Nigerians are resolute to follow up development of cultural and economic ties, while stressing both country’s readiness to remove obstacles to reach positive outcomes. 