 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO There was palpable fear of serious health implications among residents of Oke-Iyanu, Bolorunduro Area, Ilesa West Local Government Area of Osun State following the discovery of a decomposing corpse of a solitary aged man. The deceased, identified as Baba Oripaka, was said to have been living alone in a dilapidated house after his family abandoned him. There was panic over the adverse effects of the oozy stench from the deceased’s apartment last week as efforts by residents to alert the local government authority to evacuate the decomposing corpse proved abortive. Baba Oripaka was said to have died few days but no one discovered before his body decomposed and started oozing out odour that attracted residents to his apartment. Following efforts by concerned residents, some members of the deceased’s family showed up and started arrangements for his internment. It was gathered that a grave was dug for Baba Oripaka. “Some people who are believed to be relatives of the deceased came around after fruitless efforts were made to call the local government attention to the health challenges the oozy smell from the decomposing body posed to the community,” a resident said. “We perceived the oozy smell for days and we were afraid of being plagued with serious health challenges. We thought it was an animal that died and had decomposed, we searched but to no avail. Some of us who stayed close to the apartment of Baba Oripaka later traced the smell to his house and found him dead and decomposing. “The man has been living alone for some time now and I have not seen any family member with him. He lives in a dilapidated house and lacked care. We tried to call the attention of the local authority to remove his body but it wasn’t successful. “We then started making efforts to ask questions as to how we could get any of his family members. That same day, some people volunteered to go in search of them. Later, some people came around and I want to believe they know him well. We are making plans for his burial,” the resident of the area who craved anonymity added. 