 Motorists continue to lament as fuel scarcity bites harder despite the promise by the Federal Government that the scarcity would be over last weekend. Currently, the scarcity of the product has worsened in Abuja, Lagos, Oyo and Ogun states with long queues at filling stations. The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, on Sunday, directed its members to compile names of marketers hoarding the Premium Motor Spirit commonly called petrol and those selling above official pump price. The National Operation Controller, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, Mike Osatuyi, said that his members found it difficult to source the product from depot owners. He alleged that the independent marketers were sourcing petrol at N190 per litre against  government’s N148 per litre regulated price, thus making it difficult for them to sell at the N162/N165 per litre. Checks showed that many filling stations remained shut with long queues of vehicles seen at the stations where the product was being dispensed. In Abuja, queues grew longer at petrol stations as the scarcity entered the third week despite assurances by the Federal Government. Motorists explained that they queued for over four hours before they could get petrol at the city centre. At the suburbs of the nation’s capital, the scenes were chaotic as motorists struggled to get into few filling stations where petrol was being dispensed. As petrol scarcity persists, black markets thrives with hawkers selling the product in kegs, with price ranging from N350 to N400 per litre. In Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, most of the filling stations were under locks and keys while motorist queued up to buy fuel at other filling stations. A motorist was quoted as saying that saboteurs were responsible for the scarcity. The man who spoke anonymously, said that “There are some people who keep milking Nigerians through importation of fuel and that is why our refineries will never work. “They want to force government’s hand to stop the fuel subsidy so they can fix their price themselves and when that happens, we are in trouble in the country.” 