 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Men of the Osun State Police Command have arrested a 300-Level student of Tai Solarin University in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State, Bola Arogundade, for allegedly beating her mother and inflicting injury on her over some inherited sum of money. It was gathered that sometimes last year, following the passage of Bola’s father, Chief Arogundade, a traditional chief in Osogbo, as the only child of her mother, the Arogundade family reportedly gave her (Bola) the sum of N200,000 as her inheritance from her late father. The suspect’s mother, Funmilayo Arogundade, was said to have used part of the money to settle her debts and to pay the medical bills of Baraka, her half-sister. There was a fight between Bola and her mother as she demanded for her money. The police arrested her at their Olonkoro residence in Osogbo when the matter was reported at Dugbe Police Station When arraigned before an Osogbo Magistrate’s Court, the police prosecutor, Inspector Adeoye Kayode, said that “Bola Arogundade, on March 22, at about 7:30am at Number 5, Olokoro area, Osogbo, beat up one Funmilayo Arogundade and inflicted injury on her left eye and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 355 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II, Laws of Osun, 2002.” Without any legal representation, Bola, aged 26, pleaded not guilty to the one count-charge of assault slammed against her. Her mother prayed the court to release her, saying that she did not report the matter to the police. Funmilayo, who was in tears, said, “It was the devil’s work. She never behaved like that to me before. I am not interested in prosecuting the case.” Magistrate O. A. Daramola granted the defendant bail in the sum of N200, 000 with two sureties in the same amount, stating that one of the sureties must be a High Chief in Osogbo. The case was adjourned till April 4 for mention. In an interview before being taken to Ilesa Correctional Centre for failing to meet the bail conditions, Bola said, “I am in the 300 Level at Tai Solarin University. This is my Students Industrial Work Experience Scheme log book. I am hustling for my school fees after my father died. I go to my workplace in the Ogo-Oluwa area and return at 8pm daily. “After my father’s death, I went to my father’s family to plead for money and they gave me N200, 000 as part of my father’s inheritance. I wanted to save the money in the bank but my mother withdrew N100, 000 to settle debts and another N50, 000 to pay for (Baraka) my half-sister’s medical bills. “My mother won’t give me my money. That was the cause of our argument and she held on to me saying I would kill her.” Her mother pleaded to no avail with the magistrate that Bola should be released to her and that the case be quashed, saying that “It was the devil’s work. They said that she would be taken to Ilesa (Correctional Centre). It was the devil’s work. Tell them to take the case out of court. “I am not interested anymore. I didn’t know who came to report at the police station. I told them at the police station in Dugbe that I was not interested in the case. “She (Bola) is very fragile and I can’t do this ordinarily. I couldn’t pay her school fees. Some other people helped me with her school fees. She only has a year to finish her university education. I gave birth to only two children. I want her released.” 