 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI In a bid to boost literacy level and reduce the number of out-of-school children in Ebonyi State, a group in the Diaspora called the Ebonyi State Association in New York, has launched a four-year-scholarship scheme for indigent undergraduates of the state in various institutions of higher learning in Nigeria. The group awarded partial scholarships to 26 students across the 13 local government areas of the state. The scholarship was disbursed through a faith-based organisation, Catholic Diocese of Abakaliki Succour and Development Services Initiative. Speaking after the periodic meeting of the benefiting students at Bishop’s House, Mile 50 Abakaliki, the Executive Director of SUCCDEV, Rev. St. Cecilia Chukwu, explained that 26 indigent students have been benefiting each year from the ESANY partial scholarship since 2017. According to Chukwu, one of the donors spoke with Rev. Fr. Edward Inya in Onicha Local Government Area, stating that ESANY as an NGO was committed to offering partial scholarship to some indigent students. Chukwu said, “The Rev. Fr. advised ESANY to work with SUCCDEV to ensure sincerity and accountability. Through the directive of ESANY and supervisory role of the State Scholarship Board, the 26 students were selected, two each, from 13 LGAs in Ebonyi State. “They include one male, one female based on the households’ vulnerability index, irrespective of the tertiary institution or area of studies.” She further said that the scholarship was for four years, subject to review at the end of the circle of the programme. The clergywoman added that the group might consider upward review of the scholarship amount because of students offering courses that are more than four years and due to high increment of school fees. She prayed to God to reward those who provided the resources to assist the beneficiaries. She also urged the students to put more effort into their studies, hinting that some of them might be dropped for failing to make good results in the next tranche of the scholarship. Among the beneficiaries of the third tranche of the scholarship are Anuma Ibiam Aja, from Afikpo South; Nelson Okeda from Ebonyi LGA; and Nelson Okeda from Ebonyi LGA. They expressed joy over the initiative and also appealed to their benefactors to extend the programme to their colleagues who also yearn for it. 