 The Queens of the Niger Delta, a non governmental organisation, has honoured the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, with Giant Stride Award. Gideon Whites, Manager of the NGO, presented the award at a ceremony in Abuja, explaining that Emefiele was honoured for his contributions to the growth of the financial sector in Nigeria. Whites said that the ceremony coincided with the 10th anniversary of the NGO, adding, “We are in Abuja to honour you as part of our programme to mark our 10th anniversary and also to intimate you of our National Mass Youth Empowerment Programme and Niger Delta National Exhibition which will begin on April 1.” According to him, the aim and objectives of the group is to promote peaceful co-existence of Niger Delta and Nigeria in general.
He said that the group was out to promote Niger Delta beautiful languages, resourceful fabrics, wonderful tourist sites and tasteful foods. “We are a non-religious, non-ethnic and non-governmental organisation. Since our inception in 2011, we have 4,234 members; we have 560 for 2021. Victoria Samuel, who is the Queen of Cross River, said that “As part of programmes marking our tenth anniversary, we are formally launching our National Mass Youth Empowerment Programme and Niger Delta National Exhibition on April 1 in Jos, Plateau. “We will kickstart our nationwide tour by organising mass enlightenment programme in various primary, secondary and tertiary institutions across the federation, beginning with North-Central zone. “During the enlightenment programme, we intend to sensitise the young people about adverse effects of drug abuse as total abstinence from drugs will qualify participants to participate in our skills acquisition programme. “We intend to give an initial take off grant of N500,000 each to every successful candidate that completes our skills acquisition programme.” Emefiele was represented on the occasion by Akpama Uket, the Administrator, Corporate Communication Department, CBN. (NAN). 