 The Peoples Democratic Party has accused the ruling All Progressives Congress of midwifing hardship for the citizens, citing the biting fuel scarcity in the land. The party urged Nigerians to brace up and be their brothers’ keepers in the face of the daunting challenges. It said that the experience of the citizens under the All Progressives Congress-led administration showed that the government had abdicated its constitutional duty to guarantee security and welfare for the people. A statement signed by the PDP spokesman, Debo Ologunagba, read that “The prevailing chaotic situation in the country with widespread uncertainties, unabating fuel crisis, piercing economic hardship, sectional agitations, heated industrial unrests, infrastructural stagnation, kidnapping, daily bloodletting and escalated insecurity with gangsters now taking over the streets of major cities further confirms that the APC administration is now on autopilot with its central command structure in disarray. “The decision by President Muhammadu Buhari to jet out to the United Kingdom for yet another routine medical check-up after his administration has wrecked our healthcare system and when the nation which he leads is in crisis, underscores the insensitivity of the APC which, by nature and outlook, has never been ready for governance since inception. “While other world leaders are solving problems in their countries, President Buhari, who promised to fix our refineries, abandoned Nigerians to the excruciating fuel crisis caused by the corruption perpetrated by APC leaders in the helm of affairs in the petroleum sector, which has now crippled economic activities in the country. “Nigerians will recall that after being exposed to importing contaminated fuel with consequential damage to vehicles, machinery and businesses, the APC government had promised to fix the situation. Sadly, several weeks after, the APC Federal Government had failed in its promise as always like in every other aspect of our national life. “With the corruption and abdication of duty by the APC, our nation is now at the mercy of black-market vendors who charge already overburdened Nigerians as high as N500 per litre of fuel; a development that has resulted in a spiral increase in transport fares, costs of food, medicines and other essential commodities. “This is in addition to the collapse of many businesses, massive loss of jobs, hunger and starvation, the sudden death of breadwinners with grave economic pressure on millions of families and attendant social consequences to our country. “By travelling out of the country at the time Nigerians expect him to make himself available and provide leadership to address the agitations by striking university lecturers, President Buhari further exposes APC’s lack of commitment towards the wellbeing and development of Nigerians youths. “This is in tandem with APC’s sustained disdain for the Nigerian youths whom the President derided as lazy youths in a foreign country. It further explains why the APC was unperturbed when its government massacred innocent and helpless Nigerian youths who were merely exercising their constitutional fundamental human right of peaceful protest during the #EndSARS protest of October 2020. “Our party is concerned that the insensitivity and utter disregard of the APC and its government for the feelings of the people have heightened tension in the country and if not checked could result in widespread restiveness and eventual breakdown of law and order. “It is clear that the APC has come to the end of the road in governance and has nothing else to offer Nigerians. The PDP, therefore, urges Nigerians to remain steadfast and hopeful as our party presses forward in its mission to rescue and rebuild our country.” 