Akeredolu’s wife asks ASUU, FG to find middle ground over strike  BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO No fewer than 155 senior Nigerian medical consultants have published a medical textbook for undergraduates that factored the peculiarities of the nation’s medicines. Speaking at the launching of the voluminous book titled: ‘The Essential Textbook of Medicine,’ at the Osun State University Main Campus, Osogbo, on Wednesday, one of the authors, Dr Alebiosu Oyetayo, the Provost of College of Health Sciences, Osun State University, said the publication was necessary because most of the books that universities use in teaching practise since 1998 are foreign and that they do not capture the medical nature of the country. He said the book would be used by students of Medicine in universities in the country and beyond and that it would fill the gap in the medical profession in Nigeria. Oyetayo said, “Why we thought of this publication is that most of the books that we use in this teaching practice since 1998 or thereabout, we have had a long experience and we realised that the two main books that we use in medical instructions are written by foreigners and of course, when you live in tropics, there are some peculiarities which those foreign books have not taken care of in up to around five or six different areas including family medicine. “So, the total number of people that contributed are across Nigeria and they are 155 and they are senior consultants in all teaching hospitals in Nigeria. So, the only person who can actually write and teach appropriately are these group of people. So, we have been at it for about two years and even last year, we needed to update what we have put together. So, that’s actually the reason why we want to fill the lacuna or gap that we have in medical education in Nigeria so as to ensure that the population gets the best.” Meanwhile, the wife of the Ondo State Governor, Chief Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu, has charged medical researchers and practitioners to sustain continuous medical research on breast and cervical cancer. Mrs Akeredolu, the Special Guest of Honour at the event, also called on the Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to find a middle ground towards resolving the lingering industrial crisis. She said, “I hereby call on the Federal Government of Nigeria and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to find a middle ground towards resolving the lingering strike in the interest of our youths who usually bear the brunt, particularly the children from humble backgrounds.” While commenting on the importance of the book, Mrs Akeredolu said, the book is timely because it is produced at a time when the nation’s medical professionals are deserting the country for greener pastures at an alarming rate, noting that it would nourish medical libraries and make a huge relief to the dearth of medical textbooks produced by African authors. “The production of the book is timely, given that it’s produced at a time when our medical professionals are deserting the country for greener pastures at an alarming rate. Besides nourishing our medical libraries, the textbook would make a huge relief to the dearth of medical textbooks produced by African authors. “There is so much to do and academics must be on the front pew in finding lasting solutions to our myriad of challenges, including medical problems. We want more of this type of intellectual offering from our universities, particularly continuous medical research on breast and cervical cancer being a perennial malaise that is taking down our women exponentially,” the first lady said. Also speaking, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Odunayo Adebooye commended the authors of the book. Adebooye decried poor reading culture among present day students and called for the return of the culture of literature in secondary schools. He said, “I have to express my appreciation to the authors. The book is for the present generation and those yet unborn. I agree to a large extent that reading culture is declining very fast in our society, especially in this part of the world. What we have to do is to bring back the culture of literature in secondary schools because in our generation, tht was where we learnt how to read. The need to read books, Yoruba and English Literature; that energised us to read some other books, so, I think we have to bring that back so that we can build the reading culture in the children of today.” 