 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Newly elected National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu,on Wednesday assumed office at the Buhari House National Secretariat of the party in Abuja, warning that President Muhammadu Buhari will not tolerate failure in the forthcoming 2023 general elections. The former governor of Nasarawa State while receiving the hand-over note from the outgone National Chairman, CECPC, Gov. Mai Mala Buni, said, APC cannot afford to be in crisis this time around adding that it is time to mend fences. Sen. Adamu charged aggrieved members to approach him so that the issues would be settled once and for all. He maintained that the APC is a party to beat, insisting that the National Working Committee (NWC) is open to work with all to ensure the party retains power and called on every committed party faithful to come on board. “We will work day and night. We have less than 12 months to face the general election. So, everybody should buckle up. The little I have had about the president is that he has complete allergy for failure. So, failure will not be in APC from today. We will work for success together. If any of you my colleagues who is with me, don’t begrudge me. If there is any issue, let me know.” Senator Adamu emphasized that he never gave it a thought to contest for the post of national chairman a month back. “A month ago, I didn’t know I will become the Chairman of APC. Here I am today, receiving the instrument and authority from the outgoing Chairman. Only God can do this. It is not my personal wisdom nor my charisma. It is not personal doings. There may be elements on the way but all this were made possible by the endorsement of Almighty God . “I promise you in the spirit of collective leadership that team is the only way. I cannot deliver alone. What I am asking for is something called ‘loyalty’. You have to be loyal. You must have one team. If you bring division tendency, we will deal with it. This country is greater than any one of us. And this party is bigger than any single member of this party. So, that is the spirit I am taking the leadership of this country. “I want to say on behalf of the new NWC that it is not going be an easy time for us. We have a major event that is going to test the water but how stable we are as a party . That is the general election that is coming. For me, by the time, we start working, our main task will be how we handle the elections as a party. How we will win the general election? People are talking, oh, APC does not have an incumbent on the ticket. We will have the honor an the integrity and the legacy of the current president on the ticket. “And I want to appeal to you like I told you during my speech after the convention. I will be counting on you. You may have taken the cap off my head, there may have been some issues working in your brain. There may have been some work that you wish to do but pass it to me.” Addressing the members of the NWC, the former National Chairman and governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni said, “I want to also add that as members of the National Working Committee, NWC, of the party, you have a herculean task. First, to sustain the gains and coming at a time when this party will soon start its nomination process. And obviously the task before you is enormous. “We have done our best from the Registration to the Local Government Area. We have done the ward, local government, state and upto the convention. But that cannot be without problems here and there. By and large, we have succeeded. “We can say we have recorded 70% success. A bigger and larger political party like APC with over 41 million membership. Part of democracy is to agree and disagree at some points. But it is all about human management. The ability to manage the situation is what will keep this party together and stronger again, and again. “So, as it is and as members of NWC, you should study Mr president speech and that should be your guide. And also, I want to thank you most importantly for this opportunity all your efforts both individually and collectively for making our task easier throughout our stewardship. “I hope and pray you will build upon where we stopped. Because APC as it, we are all witness to what happened at the convention. One will say, it is unprecedented because the attendance and orderliness that has shame the naysayers saying the party will implode,” he said. 