 BY ANDREW EKEJIUBA Chairman of Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) FCT chapter Comrade Bunmi Haruna has thumbed-up the Super Eagles for earning a positive first-leg result in their Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifying game against Ghana even as he urged NFF to mobilize Nigerians to fill the Moshood Abiola National Stadium for the return leg. The Super Eagles played out a goalless draw with host Black Stars of Ghana at the Baba Yara Stadium, Kumasi, Ghana on Friday night, and both teams are expected to square up again on Tuesday at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja for the final leg. Haruna in his reaction after the game called on the Super Eagles to rise to the yearnings of Nigerians by defeating the Black Stars and grabbing the ticket to Qatar. “Super Eagles should make their return after 10 years to the country’s number one stadium, a befitting and triumphant one by trouncing the Black Stars and confirm that Nigeria’s flag is hoisted in Qatar “We know it is not yet over and that is why we are urging the Eagles to come finish the job in Abuja and the NFF to mobilize fans for the game if possible by throwing the gates open. We have to give the Super Eagles maximum support to win in Abuja” the SWAN boss stated. “Let me also use this opportunity to commend the Federal Government, through the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Chief Sunday Dare who worked hard to ensure that the Eagles play at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium for the first time in over 10 years. “The refurbishing of the stadium has brought football and social life back to the capital city and we know the Eagles will crown that effort by defeating Ghana on Tuesday. “We also want to commend the NFF for overseeing a hitch-free game in the first leg and encourage them to provide the team with all needed support for the second leg,” the Kogi State-born sportscaster added. He continued: “We saw how the Baba Yara stadium in Kumasi was filled up by the Ghanaians and their cheers boosted their team. There is need for Nigerians to create an unbearable atmosphere for the Ghanaians come Tuesday. This will be achieved if the fans are allowed to come in free to cheer their team. “We urge the Sports minister, Chief Sunday Dare, who has on various occasions demonstrated that he has listening ears, to throw open the gates, so that the 60,000 capacity stadium could be filled up by Nigerians. “As media partners we will continue to support our team and ensure they not only qualify for the world cup, but also perform well,” Haruna concluded. 