 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A professor of Agricultural Economics from the Faculty of Agriculture, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Professor Adebayo Simeon Bamire has been announced as the Vice-Chancellor of the university. Bamire’s appointment takes effect from June 7, 2022. Addressing newsmen on the university campus on Thursday, Owelle Osear Udoji, Pro-Chancellor & Chairman of Council, said Bamire was picked as the 12th Vice-Chancellor out of the 16 candidates that contested the office. Udoji said, “As you are aware, the post of the Vice-Chancellor, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ile will become vacant by 7th June, 2022. “Council, at its meeting held on 7th December, 2021 flagged off the processes for the appointment of a new Vice-Chancellor who is expected to assume duties on 7th June, 2022. “In line with approval of the Council, the vacancy was widely advertised in compliance with relevant Statutes and Acts guiding appointment to the position. “At a Special Meeting of 14th February, 2022, the Council perused the Curriculum Vitae of all the twenty (20) applicants who indicated interest in the position. At the end of the exercise, sixteen (16) of them were shortlisted, having met the advertised criteria. “The interaction with the candidates began on Monday, 14th March, 2022 and ended on Wednesday, 16th March, 2022. All the sixteen candidates appeared before the Joint Council and Senate Selection Board, with fifteen of them present physically and one, at his request, virtually. The Selection Board painstakingly examined the Curriculum Vitae and interacted with each candidate, and scored them accordingly to stipulated criteria. The three highest scoring candidates were presented to the Council for further consideration as provided by the law. The entire exercise of the Joint Selection Board was witnessed by the representatives of the Federal Character Commission who have confirmed the exercise was fair and transparent and carried out in full compliance with the provisions of the Federal Character Commission Act “In line with the provisions of the Universities (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act as amended, the report of the Selection Board was considered by the Council which, after a careful and dispassionate review of the report, decided to appoint Professor Adebayo Simeon Bamire, Professor of Agricultural Economics from the Faculty of Agriculture, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, as the Vice-Chancellor of the University with effect from June 7, 2022, The decision of the Council shall be communicated to the Visitor to the University, His Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari through the Hon. Minister of Education.” 