 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The biometrics capture on the new Enhanced E-Passport at the Nigeria High Commission in London, United Kingdom has been suspended. Disclosing this in a statement on Friday, the Commission stated that the suspension of the biometrics capture of the Enhanced E-passport which was launched in London on 23rd November 2021, will take effect from Monday, 28th March 2022, until all challenges regarding the exercise are resolved. The decision was arrived at a meeting of the Nigerian Community on Tuesday, 22nd March 2022, at the Conference
room of the Nigeria High Commission, London, to address the challenges regarding the issuance of passports. While the Commission expressed regrets about the inconvenience this will cause, it stated that the decision was taken in the interest of the Nigerians in the U.K and to avoid the escalation of matters after reports of assault of staffs of the High Commission by Nigerian travellers due to frustration from not getting resolutions to their various grievances. The statement read in part, “The issuance, renewal, and operations since the introduction of the new Enhanced E-passport have been fraught with many challenges, particularly on the issuance of National Identification
Number (NIN) and the appointments for biometrics capture. The Mission
feels and shares in the pains of teeming Nigerians since the launching of the new E-passport scheme in the United Kingdom by the
Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. “The staff of the High Commission are currently being assaulted on regular basis on account of attendant frustrations, particularly by Nigerians who travel long distances from Scotland, Northern Ireland, Manchester, Cardiff, Birmingham, etc to the Mission in London without positive resolution of their respective consular issues. Nigerians with dual citizenship desirable of renewing their British Passports and those
seeking the issuance of British Resident Permit (BRP) are also usually on edge because of the inability of the Mission to resolve their legitimate
needs and requirements. “In view of the present precarious situation similar to the situation of the past, particularly the continuous physical and verbal assaults of the
staff of the Mission, a meeting of the Nigerian Community was
convened to find a solution to the challenges associated with passport
issuance before it deteriorates into avoidable calamities. “Consequently, the biometrics capture on the new Enhanced EPassport at the Nigeria High Commission in London is hereby
suspended with effect from Monday, 28th March 2022, until these
challenges are resolved, in the interest of the Nigerian Community in
the United Kingdom. “Whilst we regret the inconveniences the suspension may cause,
the Emergency Travel Certificate window and visas for British- Nigerians are available as a stop-gap measure,” it noted. 