.UNIBEN flies flag at half-mast to mourn ex-VC  Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State on Saturday mourned the passing of renowned mathematician and former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Benin, Grace Alele-Williams. Alele-Williams died on Friday in Lagos at the age of 89 years. The late Professor of Mathematics was appointed the first female Vice-Chancellor of the University of Benin in 1985. In a statement issued in Benin, Obaseki described Alele-Williams as an Amazon, who treaded where others dreaded. Obaseki also hailed her unmatched devotion to national development. “It is with a heavy heart that I received the sad news of the passing of renowned academic and administrator, Prof. Grace Alele-Williams. “As the first female Nigerian to earn a doctorate degree in mathematics, Prof. Alele-Williams was a woman of many firsts. She shattered the glass ceiling and didn’t look back thereafter. “As the first ever female Vice-Chancellor of a Nigerian university, she shone brightly as a fearless administrator and restored sanity to the institution of higher learning in a period of social upheaval. “Prof. Alele-Williams will be remembered for her insight, dedication to duty and courage as well as her commitment to breaking barriers limiting advancement of women in uncharted territories,’’ the governor stated. Obaseki noted that Alele-Williams was a thoroughbred academician who throughout her life left an indelible mark of dutiful service, hard work, diligence and determination. The governor commiserated with the Alele-Williams family, praying that God will grant all the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. Also, his Delta State counterpart, Ifeanyi Okowa, has extended his condolences to the family of the renowned mathematician and Nigeria’s first female Vice-Chancellor. Okowa, in a condolence message by his Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifeajika, on Saturday in Asaba, said that late Alele-Williams was a great role model to the female gender, which she inspired with her brilliance and diligence. The governor joined family members, the academia and the Itsekiri nation, in mourning the renowned scholar and administrator, who in 1963 earned a doctorate degree and became the first Nigerian female to attain such academic height. “On behalf of the government and people of Delta, I condole with the deceased’s family, the academia, the Itsekiri nation and people of Delta, on the passing of the renowned mathematician and scholar, Prof. Grace Alele-Williams. “We received the news of her passing with shock, but thank God she lived a life of great impact. “She was a great role model and worked assiduously to stamp out cultism at the University of Benin, where she was Vice-Chancellor,” Okowa said. He noted that the late scholar’s drive and love for knowledge earned her many recognitions and awards in Nigeria and across the globe. “Prof. Alele-Williams was an illustrious daughter of Delta, and only recently, we honoured her and other illustrious people of the state during the state’s 30th anniversary celebration. “She would be greatly missed by those whose lives she impacted and inspired in very many ways,” Okowa said. The governor prayed for the repose of the soul of the departed professor, and for God to comfort her family. In same vein, the Academic Staff Union of Universities, University of Benin branch, on Saturday described the demise of Grace Alele-Williams, the first female Vice-Chancellor in Nigeria as saddening. Ray Chikogu, UNIBEN chairman of the ASUU, said this while reacting to the death of Alele-Williams in Benin. The ASUU chairman prayed to God to grant the deceased eternal rest. Chikogu told NAN that the late former Vice-Chancellor was at the helm of affairs of the institution at the time that it was clearly in need of a direction and strong leadership, which he said she provided. “She was an icon in the University of Benin and we missed her greatly. “The University of Benin misses her because of the remarkable landmarks she left in the university in terms of good infrastructure and human development. “She left an indelible footprint and we are hoping that God will give her immediate family the fortitude to bear the loss, and hope that God will grant her eternal repose,” the ASUU leader said. Meanwhile, the University of Benin on Saturday ordered the flying of the institution’s flag at half-mast to mourn the death of the first female vice-chancellor in Nigeria, Grace Alele-Williams. In a statement issued by the University of Benin’s spokesperson, Benedicta Ehanire, she said Lilian Salami, current Vice-Chancellor of the institution on behalf of the university community mourned the passing of her predecessor. Salami, the second female Vice-Chancellor in the institution after Alele-Williams, described the late former and first female vice-chancellor as an iconic giant for breaking the glass ceiling for other women to blossom. She expressed solace in the fact that the late professor was being celebrated rather than mourned. “The Vice-Chancellor, University of Benin, Prof. Lilian Salami, on behalf of the Governing Council, Management, Staff, Alumni and Students, mourns the passing of her predecessor, Prof. Grace Alele- Williams. “Prof. Salami described the late former and first female vice-chancellor of the University of Benin as an iconic giant who broke the glass ceiling for other women to blossom,’’ Ehanire stated. Alele-Williams, Nigeria’s first female professor of Mathematics Education was born on December 16, 1932 in Delta to an Itsekiri mother and Owan father from Sobe, Edo State. (NAN) 