National School Feeding now runs at N100 per plate BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development is to build 60 model school kitchens across the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory even as the Federal Government has reviewed the National Home Grown School Feeding Programme meals from N70 to N100 a plate per child. Disclosing this at a programme to commemorate the 7th Africa School Feeding Day at the Transcorp Hilton Abuja, on Tuesday, the Minister, Sadiya Umar Farouq, said, “We are currently working on a policy framework for the programme, and will also be rolling out quality assurance structures, along with the introduction of the concept of School Kitchens in 60 model schools across the nation. “These school kitchens are designed to serve as models, as well as training and skills building centers for cooks and other vendors of the programme.” Umar Farouq thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for the increment, adding that it came at a time when all hands were on deck to ensure that all public primary school pupils 1 to 3 were enrolled in the programme. “I will like to seize the opportunity to commend President Muhammadu Buhari for the recent approval granted by the Federal Government for the upward review of the daily cost of feeding from N70 to N100 per meal per child, which comes along with increased monitoring and tighter regulations. “This is coming at a time when there is an urgent need to ensure that our children are not left behind in the development process, especially in the wake of the devastation caused by the COVID-19 global pandemic to the stability of millions of households here in Nigeria. “That is precisely why in 2020, as part of the government’s efforts to cushion the effects of the pandemic, the Ministry provided dry take home rations to targeted households of pupils on the programme in Lagos and Ogun states, and the FCT. This is in line with our mission and mandate to ensure that all Nigerians in need are heard, seen and included.” The Minister also revealed that
 series of initiatives were already being deployed to enhance effective programme delivery, saying that arrangements were underway to provide two free meals for 9ut-of-school-children from the NHGSFP scheme as it rolled out the Alternate School Programme soon. Earlier, the National Coordinator, National Social Investment Programmes, Dr Umar Bindir, noted that the School Feeding Programme introduced in 2016 impacted the school children through increase in school enrolment of pupils and attendance. The programme currently has a total of 9,881,773 enrolled children in over 53,000 schools, of which 4.1 million pupils have so far been verified and captured on the NHGSFP database, in line with the ministry’s ongoing efforts at establishing a verifiable database of beneficiaries across its programmes and interventions. Other speakers at the commemoration of the Africa School Feeding Day include the National Coordinator and Chief Executive Officer at New Partnership for Africa’s Development, Nigeria, Gloria Akobundu; the Representative the Nasarawa State Governor, NEPAD’s Nutrition and Food Systems Project Manager, Kefilwe Rhoba Moalisi; among other stakeholders. The theme of this year’s edition of the Africa Day of School Feeding is ‘Nutrition and human capital development in Africa through increased investment in home grown school feeding.’ 