 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Registrar, Joint Admission and Matriculation Board, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede has lamented proliferation and politicisation of universities in Nigeria adding that the review of the 2004 National Education Policy, NPE has done philosophical damage to the foundation of education. Oloyede made this known on Tuesday while presenting a paper at the opening ceremony of the 6th Biennial Conference of the Pro-Chancellor of State-Owned Universities in Nigeria (COPSON) held at the Olagunsoye Oyinlola Auditorium of the Osun State University, Osogbo. Addressing the theme of the conference: “State Ownership Dynamics, University Councils and the Need for a New Social Contract Between Society and University,” Oloyede who said he preferred the 2004 NPE noted that the 2007, 2013, and 2014 editions have continued to wreck incalculable havoc owing to some fundamental error made in them. He said the ivory towers are no longer allowed to serve the purpose for which they were established, adding that the university councils have a serious role to play to change the narrative. According to the professor of Islamics, “The elimination of “relevant” from manpower training is, in our view, unfair to a nation that is notorious for mass producing what is neither required nor useful “Meanwhile, due to the attraction that university enjoys as the apex of all education, it has been subjected to abuse and the concept has become compromised in many places in the world, including Nigeria, as governments, policy makers, regulatory bodies and university administrators draw daggers at the very soul of the university concept. “Rather than be allowed to serve its purposes, many a university has become a battle ground of contestation of ethnic rivalry, religious supremacy, political brinkmanship and social malaise all deriving from poor governance,” he noted. Oloyede said politicisation and proliferation of universities only increase the number rather than focusing on functionality, saying that governments should deemphasise increase in the number of universities. He added that focus should be on establishing industries where graduates would work as it was done by the early political leaders in Nigeria. He said, “For state governments, the establishment of universities is predicated on the imperative of fulfilling the social contract of developing the States through education. As noble as the goal is, it is increasingly being eroded with the predilection of some governors to establish universities just for the sake of establishing them without any consideration for the legal contract upon which universities are ensconced. “Many state universities suffer from acute misgovernance and underfunding as they were just established to score cheat political scores or message the ego of public servants who just want to cite a university in their villages or just add establishing a university to the chain of their achievements.” “Conversely, our national political ancestors like Obafemi Awolowo, Sir Amadu Bello and Nnamdi alike emphasised where the graduates would work. At that time the industry would be waiting to receive skilled employees on graduation” To reverse the trend, the JAMB registrar suggested among other recommendations, amendment of the Nigerian Constitution to subject establishment of universities to rigorous scrutiny and satisfaction of Natural Universities Commission (NYC) based on viability, demand master plan, academic briefs and the law. Governor Gboyega Oyetola of the state who declared the conference open on behalf of the Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, tasked State-owned universities on the challenge of leading focused, disciplined and visionary institution. Oyetola, the Chief host of the conference, who was represented by his deputy, Benedict Alabi, said: “Owing to its peculiar nature as centres of research and knowledge production, our educational institutions, especially the universities, hold a special role in this redemptive agenda. “To play this role effectively, however, the university system and, in this context, state-owned universities must be strengthened and sufficiently empowered. “This empowerment should go beyond seeking administrative autonomy to incubate our Ivory Towers as responsible and responsive partners that work assiduously with the respective governments and owners to solve prevailing developmental challenges.” The chairman, COPSON and the Pro-Chancellor, UNIOSUN, Mallam Yusuf Ali said the conference was aimed at formulating policy that would attend to the myriads of challenged facing education system in State-owned universities in particular and in Nigeria in general. He said the conference was committed to pursuing the path of excellence for the university education in Nigeria. The host Vice Chancellor, Prof. Clement Odunayo expressed conviction that new policies on effective governance and leadership of State-owned universities would emerged from the conference. He said: “Nigerians should be expecting policy shift in the areas of governance and leadership of the state universities. “We cannot apply the ideas of the last ten years to address the issues of the present because many things have changed even in the last two years. We are trying to talk about how can we do things differently, how how can we do things differently would be addressed by this COPSON and as a result new policies are likely to come out on how to govern and lead state universities in Nigeria.” 