 The All Progressives Congress in Edo State, on Tuesday, disclosed that the 14 state lawmakers elected on its platform, who were unable to perform their legislative functions because of the controversy surrounding the inauguration of the house since 2019, would get automatic tickets to contest for the 2023 house of assembly election if they so desire. Lawrence Okah, state Secretary of the party, gave the indication in Benin City during the official declaration of interest by Osaro Obazee. Obazee is vying for the party’s ticket to contest for the House of Representatives into the Oredo Federal Constituency. Okah said, “The 14 lawmakers from our party have the right of first refusal because of the way they were treated by the government of Godwin Obaseki, that is what we have said because despite all they have passed through, they have remained with the APC. “Osaro Obazee has done well; he has been the mayor of the city. He has done very well and this is for people to learn that patriotism is very important. We know what he did when he was chairman of Oredo Local Government Area.” Obazee said that he decided to contest because the people needed improved representation and that going by his antecedent coupled with alleged disenchantment on the ruling Peoples’ Democratic Party, he would win the election if he gets the ticket of the APC. He said, “I am a consultant in political affairs in my local government. I am not trying to praise myself but I am coming from the grassroots and I have done my sampling so, I am not afraid that if I get the ticket of the party, I will be contesting a ruling government because even within them, we have done sampling of opinion and they have said severally that they are dissatisfied with the leadership of their party in government today. “What that means is that it creates opportunity for people like us that are contesting to reach out to them and we have done a very serious home work and we believe the election will be won. My antecedents were there when I was a local government chairman.” 