 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The Chairman, Information Sub-Committee, National Convention of the All Progressives Congress, Governor Abdullahi Sule, has said that other chairmanship aspirants who are not from the North-Central would not be denied the opportunity to contest the number one position of the party despite the zoning. Ahead of the March 26 convention of the party, holding at the Eagle Square in Abuja, the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, led by the Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, hinted on the zoning of the position to North-Central. Briefing journalists on Thursday at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja, Governor Sule, flanked by other Committee members, including the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed; and Special Adviser on Media to President Muhammadu Buhari, Garba Shehu, among others, said that a few people outside the North-Central zone who already bought the forms would not be denied. He said, “It is the North-Central that the National Chairman has been zoned to, but there are a few people who are outside the North-Central who had already purchased the forms. That is democracy for you, you cannot deny them, you cannot say no. “The leadership of the party is making a request that let it come to the zone. In the spirit of unity, when Mr President was meeting aspirants, he met aspirants not only from North-Central, but all the aspirants.” He stated that the party had been able to resolve most of its outstanding issues ahead of the Convention through consensus so as to guarantee a successful and peaceful exercise and ultimately, in the 2023 elections. “You can actually see that we have been able to resolve most of the issues in a consensus arrangement. Just last night, the President met with all the chairmanship aspirants. “As I mentioned earlier, we have been driven towards a consensus arrangement so that we can have a very peaceful Convention after which political activities will begin which will lead to the success of the party by the grace of God. “We also want to inform you of the major caucuses of this party. We have been meeting in order to discuss most of the gray areas and resolve them and so far again so good. All the governors had been inspired. We actually had a meeting with Mr. President where some gray areas were resolved and the governors are now united more than you can ever think. “We are going as a united front into this convention. We also look forward to a convention that is going to signify our unity and our strength as we come together to face the election next year,” he said. 