 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI In a bid to boost service delivery in the health sector in Ebonyi State, the United States Agency for International Development/ Integrated Health Programme has trained health workers on prioritization of needs of primary health centers to maximize available resources. The staff of the Ebonyi State primary health care centers from  171 communities were taken through quality improvement and business plan implementation in collaboration with WDCs officers in charge, and LGHA. USAID/ IHP Health Financing Advisor in Ebonyi State, Chidimma Eneze, during the one-day training/ meeting on business plan review for the first quarter of 2022 implementation in the state, said that the training would guarantee timely development of business plans of the 171 primary health centers in the state with considerations to current health realities. According to Eneze, the meeting with officers in charge, administrative secretaries, monitoring and evaluation officers, among others, would make them understand the expectations/ changes in the primary health center’s business plans and responsibilities of stakeholders in implementation. “We are here to support the basic health care provision fund for primary health care facilities to develop their business plans. The basic health care provision fund is supposed to support and ensure a basic minimum package of health services for Ebonyians as well as the revitalization of primary health care centers. “The 171 selected facilities have been encapsulated to the policy pilot programme.  Now, what they are supposed to do in terms of revitalization is to develop business plans to take care of issues in the facilities that relate to administration, infrastructure, human resources and any other important operational needs in the facilities. “The facilities have developed their plans and what we are doing here is to help them review. Following this meeting, the officers in charge will now go back and implement the reviews and get them submitted to the state primary health care development agency which will now disburse the funds to the facilities for commencement of the works on the business plans. “My advice is we all know that the resources available for this programme are quite limited so the facilities need to prioritize areas of most importance and strategically purchase commodities mostly needed. They should avoid spending the money on frivolous things that would not result in improvement of child and maternal health care in Ebonyi State,” the Health Financing Advisor encouraged. USAID-IHP has an overall goal of contributing to reductions in child and maternal morbidity and mortality and to increase the capacity of health systems (public and private) to sustainably support quality PHC services in all their states of focus in Nigeria. The organization’s objectives are to strengthen Primary Health Care Services, improve access to Primary Health Care services, and improve the quality of PHC Services in Ebonyi State. The Review Meeting Facilitator, Leonard Alegu (Director M&E SPHCDA), who described the training as timely, urged the health workers to make judicious use of the fund. The Executive Secretary of thr Ebonyi State Primary Health Care  Development Agency, Dr. Catherine Barry Oko, expressed delight at the initiative. 