 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Chairman of Accreditation of volunteers, Diplomats and Diaspora sub committee of the All Progressives Congress  for it’s National Convention and Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje, has declared that he has no fears over the purported court orders stopping the conduct of the convention scheduled for Saturday, March 26, in Abuja. Ganduje made the declaration on Tuesday at the Buhari House National Secretariat of the party while addressing the media on the outcome of screening and training of the volunteers preparatory to the convention. He said his committee is committed to getting the best to serve as Protocol officers and ushers adding that the national convention is a huge event, which  have been kickstarted with the screening and training of 250 ushers and protocol officials. The governor said the event demands high and quality performance from his committee as top dignitaries will be in attendance. “The personnel are largely drawn from the members of the National Youth Service Corp. We want the best because Mr President, the Vice President, governors, legislators, Minister’s and diplomats as observers will be in attendance. “You know there will be many dignitaries; legislators, governors, president and vice President even ministers who will be there as observers anyway. It is a gathering of who is who not only in APC but in government. So, our protocols and ushers must give the best services to befit our great party at the convention. “Seeing is believing. If you see what is taking place inside you will know we are members of the protocol subcommittee. We are preparing for the convention. Apart from the selection of about 250 able young men and women, they are under going training after which they will proceed to the Eagle Square the venue of the convention. I will be there myself together with other members of the protocol sub committee. “I have no fears. Our convention will hold inshallah. Don’t worry we are equal to the task. We are the biggest party in Africa and we have the experience to handle it. We are organizing the convention, selection is taking place, consensus is taking place and we believe we will give you the best,” he said. 