 The Emir of Ilorin, Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, on Friday turbaned Alimi AbdulRazaq as the second Mutawali of Ilorin Emirate. The royal turbaning was witnessed by the great and the good of Nigeria and of the Ilorin Emirate, led by Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo; Chief of Staff to the President, Ibrahim Gambari; Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq; Deputy Governor Kayode Alabi; Speaker Kwara State House of Assembly Yakubu Danladi Salihu; members of the National and State Assembly; cabinet members; top members of the bench and the bar; and title holders from within and outside of the emirate. Others were first class traditional rulers from within and outside of Kwara State, including the Ooni of Ife Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi; members of the business and academic communities. Speaking at the stately event, Osinbajo congratulated AbdulRazaq on the conferment of the title of Mutawali of Ilorin on him. Osinbajo, a Nigerian law schoolmate to the Mutawali, said Alimi brings many sterling qualities to the royal title. “His accomplishments in law, education and participation in banking industry are testaments to the qualities of Dr Alimi AbdulRazaq. He follows in succession to his late father Alh. AGF AbdulRazaq (SAN) as the first Mutawali of Ilorin. “We can all attest to the fact that the new Mutawali of Ilorin brings many qualities to the title. The first class mind who has navigated the legal profession and the complex world of business and politics at the highest level possible strictly on the merit of his own capacity and the weight of his contributions.” Osinbajo applauded the Mutawali’s outstanding contributions to human rights protection in Africa, which he said set the framework for the establishment of Africa Court for Human and Peoples Rights. “What stands him out for this role is his compassion and belief in upholding the human dignity at all levels. Some may not know that his PhD thesis on human right protection in Africa set the framework for the establishment of Africa Court for Human and Peoples Rights which was commissioned by the Organisation for African Unity (now African Union),” he added. The Emir of Ilorin Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari said Alimi AbdulRazaq and the AbdulRazaqs of Ilorin deserve the honour from Emirate for their sterling contributions to the ancient city, Kwara State and Nigeria as a whole. “AbdulRazaq family deserves the honour received today from the people of Ilorin Emirate. May Allaah bless the position. I believe the family will continue to contribute to the development of Ilorin Emirate, Kwara State and Nigeria in general,” the monarch said. Sulu-Gambari also commended the Vice President for his contributions to national development and for coming to honour the Emirate on the historic occasion. “We know your contributions to the development of our dear country Nigeria. I know you love Ilorin and we acknowledge your support to our state,” the Emir said. 