 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A member of the All Progressives Congress in Osun State, Mr Olawale Olusegun Faniyi has said he is contesting Ilesa West Constituency seat in the State House of Assembly to bring a change to representation and legislative processes. Faniyi, in a chat with journalists on Saturday in Ilesa, said many constituents have been longing for a better representation and that he had offered himself for a selfless service that would cause an unprecedented change and growth in the constituency. He noted that his mandate is christened “Kajose 2023” because his representation at the parliament would be open, all-inclusive, transparent, and results oriented and called for the people of Ilesa Constituency to massively support him to change the tide in governance and representation. According to him, “I have decided to contest the Ilesa West Constituency seat in the Osun State House of Assembly because, having spent major part of my life with my people and sojourning through grassroots politics in the state, I have come to really realise the gap between members of the parliament and the people they claim to represent. I want to bridge this gap and bring governance and quality representation closer to the people. “It beats my imagination when representatives are far from their Constituencies, when they don’t even give those, whose votes brought them to power, the needed feedback and dividends of democracy. All these anomalies I have come to change if voted as the lawmaker representing Ilesa West Constituency in 2023. “My representation will be all-inclusive, people oriented, results driven, and constant feedback mechanisms will be deployed. The people will determine what their constituency projects will be and by God’s grace and the support of my people, I will change the tide. “As a current post-graduate student of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife and Open University of Nigeria, having graduated as a B.Sc(ED) holder from Lagos State University in Political Science, I can say confidently that I am qualified for this parliamentary task. I earlier had my Nigeria Certificate in Education (NCE) after studying Economics /Political Science. “I am a proud product of Ilesa Grammar School (The premier Grammar School) and has formed part of what has prepared me for the challenge of life with full impartation of omoluabi ethos from Methodist High School, Ilesa. “Without sounding immodest, the traits of character in me has placed on me leadership roles which I have magnanimously managed at all fronts domestically, socially, economically, politically and religious wise. I emerged as the speaker of the Students Union Government during my college days among  position of responsibilities which include
Secretary of Alliance for Democracy, Public Relations Officer of the PDP,  Personal Assistant and Private Secretary to the Chairman Ilesa west (2003-2007), Secretary, Social Democratic Party, Ilesa West (2018-2020). “I am devout Christian of Catholic faith and I want to reiterate that I am thoroughly equipped for the task of bringing a difference to the legislative process and representation in our time. With your support, we will get the desired results,” Faniyi added. 