 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL Former Vice-President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar, has formally declared his intention to run for presidency at the 2023 general elections. This he did at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, on Wednesday with a promise to rescue Nigeria. Atiku attributed his “enduring persistence” to his passion “to rekindle the Nigerian dream that I was privileged to live”. He described Nigeria is a “sinking ship” that must be rescued urgently. While calling the country a land of possibilities, he declared that she is in dire need of a visionary leader. “The 2023 election is not just like the usual elections; it is a referendum to decide whether we want greatness or continuous destruction. It is a choice between two paths: the path of unity and progress or the path of division and backwardness. “We need a new kind of leadership that will steer us to a positive path. In 2023, we want a President who has ideas on how to fix Nigeria. We want a president who understands, inspires, and is empathetic. “I have contested for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria a couple of times in the past. My enduring persistence is borne out of my passion to rekindle the Nigerian dream that I was privileged to live. “Nigeria is a land of possibility. There is no challenging background that will make any Nigerian give up. I am a living witness to what is possible in Nigeria. “You and I know that Nigeria is in dire need of visionary leadership. Our fundamental principles and purpose as a nation have never been challenged as it is today. Presently, Nigeria is a sinking ship; it must be rescued urgently. That is why I am happy to announce my candidacy for the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, under the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). “I offer myself to rescue the sinking ship. Under my captainship, this ship will sail to a brighter course by the grace of God. However, this journey is not mine alone. It is a journey I am taking for all Nigerians. It is also a journey to a destination I planned with my late great mentor, Major General Shehu Musa Yar’adua, and with my beloved compatriot, the late, and great, Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola. May their souls rest in peace.” The Independent National Electoral Commission has fixed next year’s presidential elections for Saturday, February 25, 2023. 