 Justice Raliatu Adebiyi of an Ikeja High Court on Friday fixed May 6 to rule on an application for virtual testimony in the trial of Patrick Akpobolokemi for alleged N754 million fraud. The application was filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Akpobolokemi, a former Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency is standing trial alongside Ezekiel Agaba, a former Director of the agency. In the application, EFCC is seeking to have its next witness, who is based in the U.S, to testify through electronic means. The witness is Charles Oboh, a Director of Aroward Nig. Ltd. “The prosecution is seeking an order granting leave to call the witness based in the USA to testify through electronic means, and for such other orders, as this honourable court may deem fit to make in the circumstance,” EFCC counsel, Kufre Udua said. Akpobolokemi’s counsel, Collins Ogbonna, raised no objection to the application. Counsel to Agaba, Dozie Onyeke, however, opposed the application via a counter-affidavit, and told the court:  “It will be prejudicial as he (the witness) is not situated within jurisdiction. “We believe his evidence could be manipulated,” Onyeke argued, praying the court to dismiss the application. In response to the objection, the EFCC counsel said: “The objection on the point of manipulation is only an assumption. “We urge this honourable court to discountenance the submission of defence and grant our prayers. The defendants are accused by the anti-graft agency of stealing N754 million belonging to NIMASA. The sum was allegedly released to the defendants for implementation of Voluntary International Maritime Organisation Member State Audit Scheme (VIMSAS). EFCC also alleges that the defendants knowingly forged a document entitled, “Re: Request for Payment as Consultant for VIMSAS Administration Services”. According to the commission, the document dated May 25, 2015, is purported to have been issued by Aroward Consulting Ltd. (NAN) 