 Attackers of a Kaduna-bound train, who abducted some of the passengers on board, have reportedly contacted the family members of their hostages. However, it was gathered that the terrorists had yet to demand for ransom. The Secretary-General of the Trade Union Congress, Musa Ozigi-Lawal: TUC Chairman in Kwara State, Akin Akinsola; a dentist, Dr Chinelo Nwandowere, alongside five others were reported to have been killed by the gunmen with 41 others injured in the tragedy. A family member to one of the victims was quoted as saying that the abductors informed them that the kidnapped passengers were safe. According to him, the bandits made a telephone call on Tuesday night. The family member who doesn’t want his name in print, said, “They told us our sister and other missing passengers were with them in their camps and that she was safe. They didn’t say more than that before ending the call. ”We are scared. We are just praying for God’s intervention and her safety. We are pleading with the kidnappers to release her for us.” A journalist, whose mother and sister were kidnapped, confirmed that the bandits contacted his brother. The man, who said that his mother and sister arrived in Nigeria from Saudi Arabia and boarded the train to Kaduna, stated, “My mum and sister were on the train and are among those not accounted for. ”The bandits have contacted my brother but didn’t ask for ransom yet. They have told us that my mum and sister are with them in the forest. ”Please, join in prayer for their safe return. We are praying fervently that nothing bad will happen to them and others in their custody.” Meanwhile, the members of staff of Bank of Agriculture whose Managing Director, Alwan Hassan, was reported missing, were in fear as some survivors relayed their encounter with the terrorists. The Federal Government said it was working on measures to avert further attacks on trains. The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, in a statement by the acting Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi (CSP), said that the newly acquired equipment would boost their efforts at securing the citizens. The statement read that ‘The drones will assist the police in monitoring active crime scenes, coordinating response operations and providing aerial support to responding officers. “The UAVs include an ALTI Transition, capable of covering up to 150km in a single flight with high endurance of up to 14 hours, and an Elistair Orion fixed-wing aircraft, capable of covering up to 92m altitude with high endurance of up to 50 hours and other sensitive and forensic-based features.” 