 Google has announced $1m support for African women, including women entrepreneurs in Nigeria. This, the technology giant said, would help grow their businesses. According to Google, the initiative is part of its effort to mark the 2022 International Women’s Day. Head Brand and Reputation, Africa – Google, Mojolaoluwa Aderemi-Makinde, said, “Research shows that 58 per cent of small and medium-sized business entrepreneurs in Africa are women. “Despite this, women-run businesses show, on average, 34 per cent lower profits than those run by their male counterparts. “They are also less likely to receive funding and investment. This is why we are announcing a series of initiatives today, aimed at providing the support women need to grow their businesses.” Makinde stressed that “These stories feature women like Vivian Nwakah in Nigeria, who launched Medsaf, a pharma supply chain solution to help Nigerians get access to quality pharmaceutical health care services; Mary Mwange, CEO and founder of Data Integrated who is driving innovation in the mobile payments sector in Nairobi, Kenya; and Mosa Mkhize in South Africa who launched Origins Publishers to provide her children – and others like them – with books in their home languages. “Google is also providing free tools to support women entrepreneurs to grow their businesses and has launched an intensive programme to drive the discovery of women-owned businesses through Google Business Profiles. “These tools include Google Business Profile which helps businesses create a free webpage to make them easier to find online, and Primer, an app-based skills building platform which allows business owners to access a series of free, custom designed, bite-sized lessons on the go. “To help women business owners to develop their skills, Google has also dedicated the March cohort of the Hustle Academyto women-owned SMBs. The Hustle Academy, launched last month, is a free, week-long bootcamp designed to help SMBs build the expertise they need to expand their businesses.” Makinde explained. 