Seek FG’s intervention  Some residents of the Federal Capital Territory have decried the incessant power outage being experienced in parts of the territory just as they continued to count their losses. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that while some parts of the FCT have power supply for some hours daily, other hardly have light for days. Some residents alleged that for more than one month, they had experienced poor power supply. The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company reportedly attributed the poor power supply within its franchise areas to low power generation from the national grid. Donald Etim, AEDC Chief Marketing Officer, in a statement issued in Abuja on March 4 to its customers in Kogi, Niger, Nasarawa and the FCT, said that “In recent weeks, the power generated and served to the national grid for onward delivery to customers has been abysmally low.” The development, it was learn, led to load shedding in affected areas. Some residents of Lugbe, Kuje, Area10, Central Area, Kubwa told NAN in Abuja, on Sunday that their businesses were adversely affected by poor power supply. Esohe Omohe, a fashion designer, said that in the last two months, power situation in the FCT had turned worse. Omohe said that the biting fuel scarcity had worsened the situation as it became difficult to get fuel to power generator. “There is no light, no fuel. The situation is terrible and we are appealing to the Federal Government for quick intervention before people die of hunger,” she said. Uche Okoro, an ice block seller, described the situation as ‘bad and worrisome,’ stating that “The beer parlour I am operating to assist my family is no longer thriving as most nights, there is no light to power the freezers to cool drinks. “I am appealing to the management of AEDC and the Federal Government to do something urgently about this so we can get some respite.’’ At Jedo Estate on Airport Road, a welder, Innocent Okpara, said that lack of stable electricity supply in the area affected his work as he depended on generator. He said, “As you can see, these doors and windows I am making are for my customers. If there was steady power supply, I would be able to deliver and earn some income. “Even when there is light, it hardly lasts up to two hours and we understand there is load shedding currently ongoing. “We are appealing to the AEDC to give us light even if it is for four hours, as we have not slept with light for more than three weeks,’’ he said. Joseph Okiri, a dry cleaner also said that poor electricity supply affected his business. He appealed to the government and the management of AEDC to urgently address the situation. Jude Omokhua, a barbing saloon operator in Kuje, said that lack of stable electricity supply is a major challenge. He expressed worries that the AEDC officials still billed the people despite the dismal situation. (NAN). 