 The Academic Staff Union of Universities has said that it would not renegotiate its 2009 agreement with the Federal Government. The union expressed its stand just as the government reconstituted a renegotiation team on the 2009 agreement in a bid to find a lasting solution to the ongoing strike. ASUU said that it had since rounded off a negotiation with the government concerning its demands. The Federal Government, in a statement said that it had reconstituted a 7-member committee to renegotiate the 2009 demands, but ASUU vowed that it would not be a party to it. The don was quoted as saying that
“We don’t know what they (Federal Government) are talking about; we have nothing to negotiate with the government. As far as we are concerned, we have concluded negotiation with the government.” However, Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, who reconstituted the renegotiation team in Abuja, said that the action was to address outstanding issues in the 2009 agreement in the interest of peace. The reconstituted 2009 FGN/University-Based Unions Agreements Re-negotiation Team comprise Prof. Emeritus Nimi Briggs (Pro-Chancellor, Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ndufu-Alike Ikwo), as chairman; Lawrence Patrick Ngbale-(Pro-Chancellor, Federal University, Wukari), as member representing North-East and; Prof. Funmi Togun-Bickersteth (Pro-Chancellor, Federal University, Birnin Kebbi), as member, representing South-West. Others are Senator Chris Adighije (Pro-Chancellor, Federal University, Lokoja), as member, representing South-East); Prof. Olu Obafemi -(Pro-Chancellor, Federal University of Technology, Minna, member, representing North-Central);
Prof. Zubairu Iliyasu-(Pro-Chancellor, Kano State University of Science & Technology as a member, representing North-West); and Matthew Seiyefa, (Pro-Chancellor, Niger Delta University, Wilberforce Island), as a member, representing South-South. The Federal Ministry of Education, in a statement issued through its Director of Press, Bem Goong, said, “The team will be inaugurated by the Minister on Monday, the 7th of March, 2022 at the Minister’s Conference room, headquarters of the Federal Ministry of Education, Abuja by noon. “All advisers and observers in the Federal Government/University-based Unions 2009 agreements Re-negotiation Team are expected to attend the inauguration.” 