…Pick expression of interest forms BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Supporters of Senator Abdullahi Adamu, led by the outgoing Vice Chairman of the Abuja Municipal Area Council, AMAC, Lawrence Onuchukwu, on Wednesday stormed the Buhari House National Secretariat of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to pick expression of interest form for their principal to contest for the post of National Chairman at the Saturday, March 26, national convention in Abuja. Speaking to the media after the collection of the form, Onuchukwu who is serving as Director General of Adamu for National Chairman Campaign group said, “As you can see we are here to obtain form to vie for the national chairmanship of this party for our principal Senator Dr Abdullahi Adamu. “If you have been following the antecedents of Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, you will know and agree with me that this is the man that has capacity and the capability to pilot the affairs of this great party.  You will also agree with me, if you are a member of this party, that he was the chairman of the nine-members committee saddled with the responsibility of reconciling the party that made us have some governors who joined the party. That alone is a major reason for us why he should come and pilot the affairs of this great party.” On the rumours making the rounds that President Buhari has chosen the former Nasarawa State governor, the DG said,
“If that rumour is anything to go by, it is a boost for us. Mr President as a man of integrity, I’m sure will not want to associate himself with someone who does not have capacity to actualize the vision of this party. And you are also aware that we must not pretend that the party has some challenges and you need an administrator, a politician, you need a person who can handle the party. “The CECPC chairman, Gov. Buni of Yobe state is a good man. Through him we have seen many governors decamping into our party, it shows that he is a great man. But in life you will have to start from somewhere and end somewhere so that someone else will continue from there. And I can assure you that Abdullahi Adamu has seen it all as a former minister, two term governor and three term senator. What is left is for this man to come and give service to this great party and take this party to the next level. “The party in her wisdom has zoned the national chairmanship to the North Central zone and you will agree with me that more than two people have obtained forms and this is the beauty of democracy. The electoral act signed by Mr President said it very clear that election can be conducted either by direct, indirect or concensus. “For us in our party we don’t have crisis. Any where in this planet ruling parties are always this way and that is why you are not seeing anybody decamping from APC to any other party. I usually say that we have not lost any state to PDP, we lost to IPC. IPC means ‘internal party crisis’. With Sen Abdullahi Adamu in the saddle, I am sure APC will not lose to any political party. I can assure you,” he said In a related development, the delegation from Zamfara State also stormed the Buhari House National Secretariat to collect expression of interest form for the former governor of the state Abdulaziz Yari. The delegation led by Senator Tijjani Kaura said, “As far as we are concerned there are contending issues concerning zoning. First of all, we are fully aware that the national Chairmanship has been zoned to the north and the presidency has been zoned to the South. As you are aware that all positions of the party that were hitherto in the south will go to the north. Zamfara being in the north is well qualified. “We have just purchased the form for Sen Abdulaziz Yari to contest for the position of the party’s national chairmanship. “We are very ready for the convention come 26th, Yari being one of the founding fathers of this great party and has contributed immensely and greatly to the betterment and welfare of this party.   He is ready to lead the party and will not allow it to die. “What the party needs now is a unifier. This was a party which was formed by the coming together of many parties. If care is not taken, the party will be so divided but Yari as a founding father will ensure that the party does not disintegrate.” Helen Effiom from Cross River State also collected the expression of interest form to contest for the position of National Women Leader of the party. 