 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The leadership of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife branch, has charged its members to remain resolute as the union has extended its warning strike by eight weeks to give Federal Government time to meet its demands. Recall that members of ASUU in OAU had on January 31, this year, embarked on a total and indefinite strike over what they described as the refusal of the institution to pay their earned academic allowance. They had accused the university Vice-Chancellor, Eyitope Ogunbodede-led management of unnecessarily delaying the payment of the allowance which had been remitted into the university’s account by the Nigerian Government since December 13, 2021. Amid OAU branch’s industrial action, the national body of union, on February 14, 2022, declared a month warning strike having failed to reach a beneficial resolution as regards the outstanding 2009 ASUU/FG Agreement. After the warning strike ended on March 14, the union extended it by another two months. Reacting to the new development on Monday, OAU ASUU chairperson, Adeola Egbedokun, asked members to remain committed to the industrial action adding that the government has shown that it would not do anything good unless forced through strike. Egbedokun also urged them not to be blackmailed by opinions that students are at the receiving end of the industrial imbroglio. He said lecturers of OAU shun the matriculation ceremony held. In a statement addressed to his members, Egbedokun said, “I want to appreciate you for prosecuting the 4 weeks roll-over, total and comprehensive strike. It has been successful so far and we have been able to force government, at least, to take some actions. “The roll-over, total and comprehensive strike declared on 15/03/2022 has been rolled-over by 8 weeks. Comrades, remember that the roll-over strike is total and comprehensive, thus we should not participate in teaching, supervision of long essay and thesis, supervision of Teaching practice, supervision of IT students, attendance at statutory meetings (faculty boards, departmental or faculty review, Committee of Deans, Business Committee of Senate, Senate meeting, A&PC etc). “Comrades, let us remain resolute. This government has demonstrated that they do not have capacity to conspire to do any good unless forced. Let no one cajole or blackmail us with the argument about students being the ones suffering the negative effect of our strike. This is not true! We shall overcome this tyranny,” he added. 