…Wants party to respect founding fathers  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Former governor of Imo State and Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District, Rochas Okorocha, has applauded the change of the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) saying it has given party members the hope that the forthcoming national convention scheduled for March 26 will definitely hold. Okorocha who was at the Buhari House National Secretariat of the party on Wednesday said he came to show solidarity to the Governor Abdullahi Sani Bello-led CECPC and to encourage them to continue with the good job till the national convention of March 26 is held. “At a time it was rumored that even the March 26 national convention date was not realisable. But with the coming of Gov. Bello and the spate of work so far done, we can be confident that the convention will certainly hold. “One thing we are asking for is that the party should obey rule of law so that we can have a rancour-free convention. Our party must not be seen as a party that has no respect and regards for Court Orders or judgments. The Court has decided who is the chairman of our party in Imo State and that has settled the matter. Anything outside that is anti democracy. Dan Nwafor is the authentic Chairman of APC Imo State chapter.” The former governor said disobedience to Court judgment amounts to neglect of the judiciary which is a strong leg of democracy and warned that no nation’s democracy thru es on such. He called on the CECPC to recognize the founding fathers of APC arguing that it took the coming together of ACN led by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, CPC led by President Muhammadu Buhari, APGA led by himself and ANPP led by Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu and Abdulaziz Yari to form the APC. “APC has its founders. The party came into being when the ACN led by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the CPC led by President Muhammadu Buhari, APGA led by Rochas Okorocha and the ANPP led by Dr Ogbonnaya Onu and Abdulaziz Yari. We succeeded as a party and were able to defeat PDP in 2015 because we respected each other mutually. We made sure the positions were distributed accordingly. “How can you conduct a national convention without giving someone like Asiwaju Bola Tinubu the chance to produce delegates, without a Rochas Okorocha producing delegates, the Ogbonnaya Onus, Yaris, etc not producing delegates. I mean that convention cannot be peaceful. So, we are to do the right thing to have a peaceful convention. On the sack of Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi by the Federal High Court in Abuja, Okorocha said, “when a Court gives judgment and a Court of Higher jurisdiction comes in by Appeal, the judgment by the lower Court will be stayed and I think that is what has happened in the case of Ebonyi,” he said. 