.Board appoints Ogbonna Bank’s CEO  Herbert Wigwe, former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Access Bank Plc, Nigeria’s leading lender, has emerged the Group Managing Director and CEO of the new Access Holdings Plc. The new Managing Director and CEO of Access Bank, now a subsidiary of the new Holdings structure, is now Roosevelt Ogbonna, formerly Deputy Managing Director of the Bank. A statement from the financial institution disclosed that “the changes were due to the completion of the Scheme of Arrangement between Access Bank Plc (‘the Banking Subsidiary’) and holders of its fully paid ordinary shares of 50 Kobo each resulting in the listing of Access Holdings Plc (‘Access Holdings’) as the parent entity of the Bank and related group companies on the Nigerian Exchange Limited (‘the Exchange’) and the delisting of the Bank; the Board of Access Holdings today announced the following changes to the Board of the Banking Subsidiary.” “The appointment underscores the effectiveness of the Group’s robust succession planning arrangement and follows the appointment of the incumbent, Dr. Herbert Wigwe, as the Group Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of Access Holdings,” it said. Ogbonna has been the Bank’s Deputy Managing Director since 2017. Prior to 2017, he was appointed Executive Director, Commercial Banking Division, in October 2013. He is a through-bred and consummate professional with over two decades of banking experience having joined Access Bank in 2002 from Guaranty Trust Bank. Ogbonna has a very rich professional cum academic background. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA), an Honorary Member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers (HCIB), a graduate of the Harvard Kennedy School of Government’s Senior Executive Fellow programme, an alumnus of Harvard Business School and a CFA charter holder. He holds a Master’s degree in Business Administration from IMD Business School, Switzerland; a Master’s degree (LL.M) in International Corporate & Commercial Law from King’s College, London; an Executive Master’s degree in Business Administration from Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business; and a Bachelor’s degree in Banking and Finance from University of Nigeria, Nsukka. In 2015, he was selected as one of the Institute of International Finance (IIF) Future Global Leaders. Roosevelt has attended Executive Management Development Programmes on diverse areas of banking and management in world leading institutions. He has a robust corporate board experience and currently serves as a Non-Executive Director of the Bank’s subsidiaries in UK and South Africa. He also represents the Bank on the Boards of its investee companies – African Finance Corporation and CSCS Plc. Victor Etuokwu, is now Deputy Managing Director, Retail North. He was appointed an Executive Director of the Bank in 2012 and his appointment was renewed in 2022 following the expiration of his second term. He has approximately three decades of banking experience cutting across Operations, Information Technology, Business Development and Retail Banking. He commenced his professional career in Citibank Nigeria where he served in various capacities including Head, Operations and Records and Reconciliations. He joined the Bank in 2003 and has led several critical projects including the mergers with the defunct Intercontinental Bank Plc and Diamond Bank Plc. Chizoma Okoli, a seasoned professional with approximately three decades of robust banking experience is now the Bank’s Deputy Managing Director, Retail South. 