 The Senior Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on State Lotteries, Funmi Olotu, has rewarded some notable women across different sectors with awards in commemoration of the International Women’s Day. The well attended award ceremony, held on LAGFERRY boat, featured lip-smacking cuisines, networking session and entertainment. Funmi Olotu, the organiser, dedicated the year’s IWD to Oluwabamishe Ayanwole, the 22-year-old girl who was murdered in the BRT recently. Olotu said that she brought women from different sectors to rub minds and share experiences as women breaking barriers in their various fields. She said that “Every year, we commemorate International Women’s Day, yet women don’t support themselves. We still don’t live in unity. “I decided to pick an all round sector to come together, share experiences and celebrate ourselves.” Urging women to support one another in order to promote love and unity, she said, “The notion that women don’t support women is a fifty-fifty win. “We have some that just beef their co-gender. I want everybody here to leave with the notion that we can actually all be together. Wherever you are, let love live and keep supporting each other.” As the 2023 general elections draw near, she urged women to get more involved in a bid to increase their representation in politics. “We all saw what happened at the National Assembly; 95.6 per cent voted against women. This is enough reason why we need to come together for the development of our country. “For Nigeria to move forward, we must all work together. I implored every woman, as we are venturing into the election season, to join a party and get involved either as a candidate or voter.” The founder of Genevieve Magazine, Betty Irabor, urged women to “make sure no woman is left behind as you are progressing. Help to move as many women as possible. Help other women to grow as you grow, it is more fun when we all grow together.” “Sometimes the prejudices and biases don’t come from the other gender, it happens within females. If we want to break bias, prejudices, lack of representation, inclusion and others, we have to start with our own gender and I think that is paramount.” Also present on the occasion were Lanre Dasilva, Funke Akindele, Aduni Ade, Nkiruka Olumide Ojo, Ini Edo, Kike Atanda, female Deputy Councilors, Toke Makinwa, Morayo Brown among others. 