 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A 65-year-old-man, Ajisafe Adetokunbo, has been arrested by men of the Osun State Police Command for allegedly impersonating an Army officer to dupe some unsuspecting job seekers in the state. Adetokunbo was alleged to have fraudulently obtained the sum of N1, 165,000 from his victims after presenting them with forged appointment letters of the Federal Road Safety Commission. The victims reportedly discovered that they had been fleeced after presenting the fake appointment letters to the Commission. The suspect was apprehended after the applicants reported the matter at the Dugbe Police Station, Osogbo. The police subsequently dragged Adetokunbo to a Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo where he was slammed with six counts of fraud, impersonation and theft. Police prosecutor, Inspector Adeoye Kayode, told the court that Adetokunbo committed the acts between October and December, 2021 in Osogbo. He added that the defendant obtained the sum of N1, 135,000 from a woman identified as Omoniyi Folasade with a promise that he would secure jobs for her siblings in the FRSC, but never met the commitment. Adetokunbo was also accused of obtaining the sum of N30, 000 from one Adesola Michael under the pretense that he would secure a job for his wife in the Federal Road Safety Corps. Kayode added that the accused person allegedly forged appointment letters which he presented to the job seekers. The charge brought against him read that “Ajisafe Adetokunbo, between the months of October and December 2021 in Osogbo, Osun State, did with intent to defraud, falsely present yourself as a Colonel in the Nigerian Army to Omoniyi Folasade, Adesola Michael and others (that) you defrauded of their money, a representation you knew to be false. “You did unlawfully obtain the sum of N1, 135, 000 from one Omoniyi Folasade under the pretense of securing jobs for her siblings in the Federal Road Safety Commission, a pretense you know to be false. “You did, at the same time and place, steal the sum of N1, 135, 000 property of one Omoniyi Folasade. You did unlawfully obtain the sum of N30, 000 from one Adesola Michael under the pretense of securing a job for his wife in the Federal Road Safety Commission, a pretense you knew to be false. “You (Adetokunbo) did steal the sum of N30, 000, property of one Adesola Michael and you also forged the Federal Road Safety Commission offer of appointment letters, dated October 24 and December 10, 2021 which you presented as genuine.” According to the prosecutor, the defendant committed offences contrary to and punishable under sections 109, 419, 390(9) and 467 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II, Laws of Osun State, 2002. However, the defendant pleaded not guilty to all the allegations. His counsel, Najite Okobe, applied for his bail in liberal terms and assured the court that he would be available to stand trial. The prosecutor opposed the oral application on the ground that the defendant would abuse bail privilege if granted. Magistrate Adekanmi Adeyeba granted the accused person bail in the sum of N1million with two sureties. He said that one of the sureties should be a civil servant not below grade level 14 while the other must be a close relative who must be a land owner within the court’s jurisdiction. The matter was adjourned till April 13 for mention. Adetokunbo could not meet the bail conditions, hence, his remand at the Ilesa Correctional facility. 