 The Ebonyi State High Court, on Friday, issued an interim order that Governor David Umahi and his Deputy, Kelechi Igwe, should not vacate their offices against the ruling of an Abuja court. A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, on March 8, in a case filed by the People’s Democratic Party, had ordered the governor and his deputy to vacate their seats. However, following an ex-parte motion filed by their counsel, Roy Umahi, pursuant to rule 3(3) of the High Court rules of Ebonyi State in suit no HAB/13/22, the court ruled that the two should remain in office. The state high court had, on February 28, ruled that Umahi and his deputy did not flout any law by defecting from the PDP to the All Progressive Congress. Justice Henry Njoku earlier dismissed the matter on the ground that it lacked merit and fined the plaintiff, Sunny Ogbuoji, the APC candidate and runner up in the 2019 governorship election, the sum of N500,000. Recall that Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja had ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission to accept new nominations for the positions of the governor and his deputy from the PDP and issue them with certificates of return to the two elective positions. Umahi and his Deputy rejected the ruling of the court in Abuja, arguing that the Ebonyi High Court ruling took precedence. Njoku granted the prayers by the governor and his deputy to remain in office and adjourned the matter to March 16 for a hearing on the motion on notice. The judge declared, “It is hereby ordered as follows, an interim order of this honourable court for seven days(subject to renewal) is hereby granted in view of the judgement in suit Number HAB/13/22 delivered on the 28th day of February 2022, being a judgement in rem and having precedence over any contrary judgement. “The applicants hereto, David Nweze Umahi and Dr Eric Kelechi Igwe, shall accordingly remain and not be removed from office as governor and deputy governor of Ebonyi State respectively.” 