 Pastor Afolabi Ghandi Olaoye, a Senior Pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Jesus House, Washington DC Parish, has said that his desire to become the next Soun of Ogbomoso is sanctioned by God. The clergyman, in a viral video on social media, told the members of his Parish that he had no ambition to become the Soun but claimed that God spoke to him about it. He, therefore, said that he had no option than to take a step of faith to obey God and watch what He planned to do. He said, “All I am doing is to obey God. Let me tell you this; if we find out in five years’ time that this church starts to have a crisis and things start to go down and you find out that the Lord spoke to me and I did not obey him and it becomes like the case of Jonah or Achan, I hope you will not say thank God you did not answer God. “You will be angry that God spoke to me and I did not obey. All I am doing is obeying God. This is not any action of avarice. It is not any action of greediness. It is nothing but obeying God. And, this is what I have preached for 30 years. “I told God if it is not your will, Lord stop it, let it not go through. But then, I got into the process. I am only following God. “There is nothing in this world that anybody has to offer me than what I have committed half of my life to do. If you know me very well, I am not doing this because I have nothing else to do. I am doing it because I believe it with my whole heart.” While speaking on the ritual demands of kingship, the man of God said, “I can tell you, I have only one covenant. The blood of Jesus is enough for me. No other covenant will I engage in. I am not going to go into the details of a lot of things you have seen on social media.” Olaoye denied the rumour that he resigned his appointment as senior pastor of the church, saying, “It is still a process. We will tell you when the process is over. “There were 23 of us before I entered into the race. Two of us were eventually picked. The chairman of the kingmaker voted for me to break the tie. The next thing is that it goes to the governor. “If you know the process, the person who makes anybody a king is the governor. The kingmaker can choose you. Your family can choose you, which they did not initially. But that is a story for another day. It is the governor who chooses.” 