 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Traditional rulers under the umbrella of Osun State Council of Obas have condemned growing attacks on their brother kings in some states across the country. They stressed the need for the protection of lives and property of every citizenry adding that this task should one of the top priorities of government at the local, state and federal levels. The monarchs said necessary efforts must be put in place towards the realisation of this objective. They made these views during their monthly meeting at the Conference Hall of the state Ministry of Finance, Osogbo. They maintained that it was high time governments at all levels found solution to the unfortunate situation where traditional rulers, as custodians of culture and tradition, are no longer safe in their palaces. Speaking on behalf of the Chairman of the council, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, two monarchs – the Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba AbdulRasheed Olabomi, and the Alasipa of Asipa, Oba Oyekanmi Muftau Oyehan – condemned how royal father’s are being attacked, kidnapped and even being killed in some instances across the country and called for an end to the trend. They urged other community leaders, critical stakeholders and security agencies among others to form a synergy with governments with a view to finding lasting solution to the menace of insecurity in some parts of Nigeria. However, the monarchs applauded the series of efforts being put in place by Governor Gboyega Oyetola led administration in the state in the area of security. While urging the Oyetola led administration not to relax in further maintaining and entrenching an atmosphere of security in the state for all citizens, the monarchs who also vouched their readiness for the re-election of Governor Oyetola, pledged their commitments to continue to appeal to their subjects back home in their various domains on the need to be security conscious at all times. As parents and stakeholders in the education sector, the Council of Obas in Osun also flayed the incessant strike action by the members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and demanded for an amicable resolution of the crisis in the interest of the students, their parents and the overall development of education in the country. 