 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Osun State High Court on Thursday ordered that Ramon Adedoyin, the owner of Hiltons Hotel, Ile-Ife, and six others arrested in connection with the death of Masters student of Obafemi Awolowo University, Timothy Adegoke, be remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre. Amid heavy security presence at the entrance to the premises of the state High Court, the seven defendants led by Adedoyin who dressed in white kaftan entered the courtroom around 8:47am.
 Immediately the defendants appeared in the courtroom, tension heightened as family members of the deceased thronged the court premises. Adedoyin was arraigned alongside a lady, Adedeji Adesola, Miss Magdalene Chiefuna, Adeniyi Aderogba, Oluwale Lawrence, Oyetunde Kazeem and Adebayo Kunle before the Osun State Chief Judge, Mrs Adepele Ojo of Court 1. When the court clerk read out the 11-count-charge to the defendants, they all pleaded not guilty. The charges bothered on conspiracy, murder, attempted felony, unlawful interference with a dead body, altering and intent to destroy evidence. The case file number HOS/5C/2022 dated February 14, 2022 and filed February 17, 2022, was substituted with HOS/5C/2022, dated February 22, 2022 and filed March 2, 2022. The charges read out in court did not show that Adedoyin was charged with murder. The lead prosecution counsel, M.O Omosun told the court that the defendants committed the offence sometimes between November 5, 2021 and November 7, 2021 within Ile-Ife area, Osun State. Omosun said the defendants, with others now at large, conspired among themselves to kill one Timothy Adegoke for unjust reasons. ”They also altered and cancelled his receipt number 9316, which indicated the payment receipt made by Timothy Adegoke to Hilton Hotel in Ile Ife. ”The deceased body was dumped with his laptop, phones, and other belonging at an undisclosed place to cover up after his murder, ” the charge partly read in court. He said the offences committed contravened sections 324, 306, 315, 509, 516, 519, 242, and 106 of the Criminal Code, Cap 38 Vol. 11, Laws of Osun State, 2004. Omosun pleaded with the court to order the remand of the defendants in correctional centre due to the magnitude of the alleged offences. Meanwhile, one of the counsels to Adedoyin, K. K. Eleja, prayed the court to grant the defendant bail in the most liberal terms after furnishing the court with a written application for bail. Eleja drew the attention of the court to count four, six, eight, 10 and 11, which indicated that Adedoyin is not standing trial for a capital offence. He cited section 157 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act of Osun State and pleaded with the court to grant the first defendant, Adedoyin, bail in affordable terms. Eleja said though the prosecution counsel had already filed an 11 paragraph counter-affidavits on March 2, 2022 against his client for bail, he believed Adedoyin would not jump bail or tamper with the ongoing trial. ”We pray your lordship to admit the first defendant to bail, after the prosecution failed to show why he should not be granted bail. The applicant (Adedoyin) had been in detention since November, 2021 and even the prosecution know that the first defendant was taken to hospital in Abuja even before being brought to Osun,” he said One of the counsels for the six other defendants, Rasheed Adegoke (SAN) aligned with Adedoyin’s formal application for bail. The presiding judge, Mrs Adepele Ojo, ordered that the defendants be remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre. Rasheed Adegoke urged the court to keep the defendants in police custody because of the congested condition of the prison custody but Ojo declined.
She urged all counsels to prepare for a speedy trial of the case within a short stipulated time and adjourned the case till March 4. Ojo, therefore, said the application for bail of the seventh defendant would be heard March 4, 2022.
An attempt to get the charge sheet failed as court clerk’s failed to release it to journalists. Meanwhile, when the court rose, the police escorts who brought the defendants hurriedly led them into an awaiting security vehicle.
Family members of the Timothy Adegoke booed and accused the police of shielding the faces of the defendants.
There was commotion in the court premises for about 10 minutes which almost led to confrontation between relations of the two parties. Heavily armed people officers had thoroughly searched and made people to identify themselves before they were allowed into the court premises. At the entrance to the courtroom, policemen in plainclothes and protocol officers of the court subjected lawyers, journalists and others going into the court to search before they were allowed in. They later restricted movement into the courtroom. There was mild drama as police arrested three men who wanted to enter the premises of court for allegedly having incriminating items. The men drove to the gate in an unregistered Nissan Micra car and were subjected to search when the said incriminating items were reportedly found on them.
The men were later whisked away in a police van towards Dugbe Divisional Police Station, Osogbo. Recall that Adedoyin and his six staff members had previously been arraigned before Federal High Court in Abuja on counts bordering on conspiracy, unlawful interference with a dead body, altering and intent to destroy evidence and murder. But counsel to the family of the deceased, Femi Falana, SAN, had written to the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba asking that the matter be returned to Osun state, where the crime was allegedly committed. 