 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Some concerned indigenes of Ile-Ife, Osun State on Thursday protested the emergence of a professor of Agricultural Economics from the Faculty of Agriculture, Obafemi Awolowo University, Adebayo Simeon Bamire as the 12th Vice-Chancellor of the university. The Pro-Chancellor & Chairman of Council of the university, Owelle Osear Udoji, while addressing press conference on campus, said Bamire was picked as the 12th Vice-Chancellor out of the 16 candidates that were interviewed for the office. Udoji disclosed that Bamire’s appointment would take effect from June 7, 2022 when the tenure of the incumbent Vice-Chancellor, Prof Eyitope Ogunbodede, would be over. Before Bamire’s appointment was announced, a group of concerned indigenes of the university host community had loitered around the Centre of Excellence, venue of the press conference and expressed displeasure over the choice of Bamire. The moment the university authorities finished addressing journalists, the aggrieved indigenes started demonstrating against the development. They moved to the campus main gate and shut it, an action that left workers who had already closed for work and we’re going home stranded for minutes. Students were not spared as gates of the school were shut against them. There was vehicular restriction to and from the campus for about ten minutes. Addressing the stranded workers and students at the campus gate, the spokesperson of the protesting few individuals, Bimbo Afolabi said appointing another non-Ife indigene as the VC was an act of unfairness for the ancient town and its adjourning communities. Afolabi threatened that the school gate would be shut tomorrow and that no academic activities would be allowed in the university. He said, “It is an insult on us that after 61 years, they deemed it unfit to appoint or to elect any of our sons. We are not particular about Ife. Ipetumodu, Lorigbo, Modakeke, and anywhere in the land. That’s our course. We are telling you (workers and students) today, don’t come to work tomorrow (Friday). We won’t agree to anything. We will be here with charms, we will be here with masquerades, we will be here with deities. “We are appealing to you, don’t come to work tomorrow. We will allow you to go now but don’t come to work tomorrow,” he added before reopening the gates of the school for members of the university to pass. 