 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Some alumni of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife have expressed displeasure over the continuous protests by indigenes of the university’s host community over the emergence of a new Vice-Chancellor. For the fourth working day, some Ile-Ife indigenes, including their traditionalists, have shut down the campus, disallowed movement to and from the university and stopped academic and administrative activities on the federal institution. On Tuesday, checks by The Point revealed that the campus was yet to resume academic activities since last week Thursday when the demonstration against the emergence of Prof Adebooye Bamire as the 12th Vice-Chancellor of the university. The protesters, who had assaulted workers and students of the university during their protests, demanded that an Ife indigene be allowed to become the VC saying that the protest would continue until a native of the host community is announced VC. But the development has generated reactions, especially from stakeholders who condemned the protest and diabolical manner it has taken. Some of the alumni of the institution who took to their social media handles to decry the protest called on the traditional ruler of the ancient town, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi, to call his subjects to order and allow peace to reign on campus and its environs. In her message, an alumnus, Bimpe Odunayo said: “It’s a shame this is happening in Ile-Ife where a respected monarch, Ooni of Ife is reigning. This is the fifth day that this crisis and the Ooni has not deemed it fit to react nor call his people to order. I think our Baba should know that his silence is not golden at this time. The protest is uncalled for and it’s painting the ancient town in bad light.” Another former OAU student, Kazeem Olalekan Israel, said, “The situation at OAU campus gate since Thursday is a total degeneration and a denigration of what an academic environment should be. It is even more embarrassing that the Ooni and his acolytes are bringing this shame upon a University with an international leaning. Mobilising cultural exhibitors and armed thugs to the University campus is irritating and absurd. “I believe that if a probe is conducted into this violent agitation, it would be unveiled that the Ooni has an evil agenda. It is on record that this same Ooni has been at loggerheads with the University management for some 3 years now as regards some portions of the University land that he is fighting tooth and nail to hijack. Today, it is the VCship post he and his acolytes are trying effortlessly to hijack as if it’s some office exclusively reserved for their town. That this shameful act is even being sanctioned by a supposed spiritual head of the Yorubas and one of the loudest voices of Yoruba unification agenda is laughable.” Also, some academics who had graduated from the university also expressed worry at the protest and described it as ridiculous. 