 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI The Chairman of Ebonyi State Boards and Commissions, Abel Tony, has raised the alarm over the alleged plot by the opposition People’s Democratic Party in the state to cause breach of the peace through inflammatory remarks and alterations of court processes. Tony, during a briefing at the old Executive Council Chambers in Abakaliki, the state capital, asserted that the residents of the state were proud supporters of the All Progressives Congress. According to him, until the expiration of his tenure on May 29, 2023, Governor David Umahi cannot be removed from office, hence, efforts being made to kick him out of office would fail. Tony said in a statement that “The Boards and Commissions condemned in its totality the activities of the opposition elements in the state and their latest plots to cause breach of peace through inflammatory statement and alterations of court processes. “The Boards and Commissions was aware that the Governor of Ebonyi State was duly elected and sworn in on May 29th, 2019 to serve a mandate of four years expiring on May 29th, 2023. “The Governor of Ebonyi State has done Ebonyi people proud and makes Ebonyi State the fastest growing state in Africa history and turning Ebonyi State into a global village with unprecedented infrastructural and human capacity development. “The dysfunctional move by enemies of the state, led by the opposition forces in the PDP, to remove the elected governor unconstitutionally is totally unacceptable and shall be resisted by the people of Ebonyi State. “We state categorically clear that the Boards and Commissions and, indeed, Ebonyi people are solidly behind the Governor and stand solidly with him. “The Boards and Commissions are aware of the subsisting judgement of a court of competent jurisdiction that the governor has not offended any law, constitution or any judicial authority or the Supreme Court in his defection to APC. “Ebonyi people are proudly APC and shall continue to remain APC.” 