 The Federal Government has said that the Lekki Deep Seaport, in Lagos State, would begin full commercial activities in September. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, while inspecting the project on Saturday in Lagos, described it as a huge achievement for the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. ”As a layman, I cannot talk in terms of percentage. I can only say that I am impressed compared to the last time we came here. I am being told by the management that by June, they are expecting cranes and by September, like we agreed, they should commence commercial activities. I am happy. ”This is a privately funded project. Over time, they will collect their revenue from commercial activities before they hand over to the Federal Government through NPA. ”Obviously, taxes would be collected here. Even them, they will pay taxes. I doubt there is tax exemption, so we will collect taxes and I must say that the confidence in giving them the project is because of the taxes that we will collect,” Amaechi said. On the projected contribution of the port to GDP,  Amaechi said that it would contribute about 360billion dollars, stressing that ”The growth of the economy will put pressure on the expansion of the project. ”The argument we have in cabinet is that the need for Lekki is as a result of the fact that the demand for port activities have exceeded the supply of Tin Can and Apapa ports around Lagos. ”We have more ports than the country needs for now because manufacturing is a big problem in Nigeria coupled with the fact that this is the first seaport in Nigeria. Right here, you have 16.5meters drought which is good for the country but the country needs more than just one. ”This is because they no longer manufacture those 11meters vessels; they now go between 16meters and above. So, we need just more than the Lagos Deep Seaport. ”I think that is why for me, before I leave office, I will emphasise on the construction of the Bonny Deep Sea Port.” The minister explained that the project, when completed would, among other things, create more economic activities and jobs for the Nigerian youths. The Managing Director, NPA,  Mohammed Koko, said that the authority would ensure the realisation of the project. ”So, this is a port that is private and automated, but NPA will also carry out its responsibilities,” Koko said. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the Lekki Deep Seaport Port, being constructed on a 90 hectares of land based on build, own, operate and transfer arrangement, would decongest the Tin Can and Apapa Ports. (NAN). 