 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Some judicial staff of the Osun State High and Magistrate Courts in Osogbo, were on Wednesday morning reportedly compelled to sweep and tidy-up the court premises in preparation for the resumption of the trial over the death of Timothy Adegoke, the MBA student of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Osun State, who died under mysterious circumstances in November, last year. The workers, after resuming their duty posts, were seen sweeping and picking liters around the large premises that housed both the High Courts, Magistrate Courts and administrative offices. Our correspondent gathered that the complex doesn’t have cleaners, hence, workers, including court clerks, were sent out of courtrooms to clean up the environment. The Point learnt that authorities at the state judicial complex were ensuring that such a ‘celebrated case’ that would attract personalities and media gurus would resume in a neat environment. It was also gathered that the judicial staffers were instructed to appear on their various duty posts wearing their best official clothes. But, checks by The Point’s correspondent revealed that the workers were not pleased with task of sweeping and picking liters around the premises. A source had informed The Point that the murder case is to resume at a High Court in Osogbo, Osun State, on March 3. The source said, “Thursday, February 3, has been set as the commencement date for the hearing. The case is expected to come up at Osogbo High Court 1 at 9am. As you can see, the workers have been asked to sweep and ensure that the environment are neat. You know this is a celebrated case which will draw the presence of Journalists, both national and international, so, the judicial authorities are ensuring that no negative report is being made about the court. “You know that the last time when a law statue erected within the Osogbo High Court premises was being supported with a stick, it went viral and it was an embarrassment to the court senior officials. So, they want to ensure the premises appear neat. But, it’s really bad that a complex as big as this don’t have cleaners,” the source said. Recall that in January, the Nigeria Police charged Rahmon Adedoyin, the owner of Hilton Hotel and Resort, Ile-Ife, and nine others to court in Gudu, Abuja. However, the police discontinued the charge in early February, citing the need for further investigations. Also, Femi Falana, the Adegoke family lawyer, wrote to the Inspector General of Police, asking that the case be transferred to a court of competent jurisdiction in Osun State, where Adegoke was reportedly murdered. Adegoke, an Abuja-based chartered accountant, had travelled to Ile-Ife on November 5 to write his MBA exams at the OAU Distance Learning Centre. He was declared missing on November 7, 2021. Later, his body was found in a shallow grave at a location very close to Hilton Hotel and Resorts, where he had lodged. 