 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A consultant pathologist at the Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, Waheed Akanni Oluogun on Wednesday informed a coroner inquest investigating the alleged killing of a police corporal, Rauf Fawale, by an operative of the Department of State Security, David Olowoporoku and two others during a fight, that Fawale died of massive cerebral bleeding due to a severe head injury. The coroner, headed by Chief Magistrate Olusegun Ayilara, had at the last sitting summoned the manager of Riverside Lounge & Bar, Osogbo, the area where Fawale was allegedly beaten to coma on January 14, 2021, Medical Director of Morning Star Hospital, Alekuwodo, Osogbo, MD of Anu Olu Private Hospital, Ilobu, MD of Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, MD of Esho Spine and Brain Hospital, Oke-Fia. It had further extended summons to Investigative Police Officer (IPO) in the case, a Police officer, Modinat Badmus, the Divisional Police Officer of Dada Estate, one Adisa Badmus, David Olowoporoku and two others to appear and explain what they know about the circumstances leading to Fawale’s death The pathologist, while giving testimony at the resumed sitting on Wednesday, said the result of the autopsy on the corpse of Fawale, which was performed on January 26, 2021 at 11:00am at the hospital, revealed that the bleeding was so massive that it raised the intracranial pressure within Fawale’s brain and affected vital part of his brain before he died. Oluogun said: “I received the dead body of Fawale Rauf at the mortuary unit of UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital on 24th January, 2021 at 4:36pm. The body was identified by a police officer, I don’t know his name, and post-mortem was performed on 26th January, 2021 at 11:00am. An autopsy revealed that there was a curvilinear (not straight) featured wounds on the scalp extending from right parietal region to the frontal region of the head. “On internal examination, there was fracture of the skull extending from the right pareital region to the occipital region of the skull. There was some massive cerebral hemorrhage or bleeding to the brain. This massive bleeding led to his death. Other internal organs are normal. There was no natural disease in the body to cause or accelerate death. My Lord, I certified the cause of death to be massive cerebral hemorrhage secondary to severe head injury due to severe trauma,” Oluogun informed the coroner. Also giving testimony, MD of Anu Olu Private Hospital, Dr Shedrack Ojo, explained how Fawale was brought to his hospital in a semi-conscious state on January 16, 2021 at about 12:30pm. “While getting his (Fawale) history, I was told by Fawale Musefiu, his relation that he (deceased) had been involved in a fight on January 14, two days to that time. He was said to have been taken to LAUTECH Teaching Hospital (now UNIOSUN Campus Teaching Hospital), where an X-ray was done. I was told that the fight was between him and another law enforcement agent (DSS) and we requested for the x-ray and we were told it was in the teaching hospital. “He was brought to my hospital at a semi conscious state. On examination, he was only responding to painful stimulus. We examined the ear and we found dry clothing in the left ear. We detected chronic head injury. Because of the state of unconsciousness, we took up fluid to rehydrate him. We also gave him intravenous anti-biotics and pain removing injection. At about 4:55pm that day, we were called that he was restless. At about 8pm, he became more restless. We then wrote a letter and referred him (Fawale) to UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital,” Ojo said after tendering a medical report which was admitted as exhibit. Speaking at the sitting, Mr Bankole Alade, the Director of Osun State Command of DSS, commended the state government for setting up the coroner inquest adding that the agency was interested in justice. Alade said: “This incident (Fawale’s death) has caused issue between two agencies that people look up to. We (DSS) want to make the state government understand that we don’t have anything to hide. It’s my payer that at the end of the day, the victim will be served justice and the good relationship between police and DSS will continue.” Chief Magistrate Ayilara adjourned the matter till April April 6. 