 The Anambra State governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, has stated his readiness to tackle insecurity in the state and restore confidence in the people to enable them engage in their daily activities in a secured environment. The governor urged the residents of the state to support his administration in ending crime and criminality, saying that end must come to the mindless killings and disruption of economic activities in the South-East. Recall that the governor said in his inauguration speech that “To IPOB/ESN, the Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra, as well as the desperate armed groups in the forests, it is time to interrogate both the purpose and means of your campaign. “To the politicians playing politics with the insecurity, you are riding a tiger. The current trajectory is a road to desolation. Let us get around the table and talk. Let the elite in the closet come out, and let us debate our future and forge a consensus. “The conspiracy of silence by the elite and some community leaders must end. If you see something, say or do something. Securing Igbo land and Nigeria must be our collective responsibility. “Let those in the forests come out, surrender their guns and let us work together to rehabilitate and empower you to contribute positively to the peace and prosperity of our homeland.” On the weekly Monday sit-at-home, he said, “A significant part of our state economy is powered by artisans, Keke drivers, vulcanizers, hairdressers, cart pushers, petty traders, bricklayers, women frying akara, and all those who depend upon daily toil and sweat to feed their families. Every day, there is a sit-at-home, these poor masses lose an estimated N19.6 billion in Anambra alone. “Due to the protracted breakdown of law and order, businesses are relocating outside Igbo land, with growing unemployment, and traders who used to come to shop in Onitsha, Aba etc. are going elsewhere. Who is losing? By forcing our children, the future of Igbo land, to stay at home instead of being in school, while even the critically sick people, including pregnant women, cannot go to the hospital, we harm our future. “I hereby challenge any of the disparate groups that claim that it is not part of the senseless killings and kidnappings to step out and show leadership by joining hands with us to do something about it. “If you love our homeland, there is no place for bloodshed. Our Lord Jesus Christ admonished in Matthew 26: 52: “Put your sword back in its sheath, for all who live by the sword will die by the sword. “For me, this issue is personal and emotional. My mother died during the civil war; our last born, Chukwuemeka died during the war; my father bore a bullet inside him for years; my elder brother – at 16, was in the ‘Boys Company.’ At eight, I became the man of the house with all the men at the war front. My uncles, cousins, etc., died during the war. “This is 2022, and there are certainly far better ways to protest than shedding the blood of the innocent or resorting to criminality. “I promise to work hard with other governors and leaders in the South-East and others to take your agitations to the table of all Nigeriana., and we hope to bargain for a win-win solution for all Nigeria. I will engage all parties to the breakdown of peace and order in Anambra from a point of determination to solve problems and resolve disagreements with openness, integrity, equity and justice.” 