 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO There was confusion on Wednesday after a High Court of Osun State sitting in Ijebu-Jesa adjourned indefinitely the suit filed before it by one Ademola Adedokun & 31 others against the primary election conducted by the Peoples Democratic Party in the state, which produced Senator Ademola Adeleke as the governorship candidate of the party. Recall that the party had held parallel primary where Adeleke and Prince Dotun Babayemi emerged candidates of the party for the July 16 governorship election in the state. The applicants in the suit had prayed the court to restrain PDP and the Independent National Electoral Commission from recognising Adeleke as the party’s flagbearer. When the suit was heared on Wednesday, the presiding judge, Justice Adeyinka Aderibigbe, said that Abioye had filed and entered appeal for the applicants at the Court of Appeal, Akure marked CA/AK/38/2022 and consequently adjourned the matter sine die. To this ends, Adeleke and Babayemi laid claims to the party governorship ticket with contrary interpretations of the indefinite adjournment of the suit. Reacting to the development, Mallam Olawale Rasheed, Director, Media and Strategy,
Ademola Adeleke Campaign Organisation, in a statement, said, “the controversy on who flies PDP banner in the poll was laid to rest” and that “the ex-parte order made by Justice Aderibigbe has automatically lapsed by the provision of the High Court Rules of Osun State. Therefore, Senator Ademola Adeleke remains the official candidate of the PDP for July 16th, 2022 Governorship election in Osun State.” “Babayemi had declined participation in party primary organised by the National Working Committee (NWC) but had since been riding on an ex-parte order granted by the judge presiding over Ijebu-Jesa division of the Osun State High Court. Even after the NWC officially presented the certificate of returns to Senator Adeleke, Babayemi refused to recognise the party leadership. “In an earlier judgement on Osun PDP crisis, an Appeal Court sitting in Akure had noted that the lifetime of an exparte order is seven days, and can only be renewed for another seven days.” An excerpt of the judgement reads that “The clear implication of the above cited rules of the court is that an order made exparte shall automatically abate after seven days. See Fagbola vs Titilayo (supra), and where the court is inclined to grant an extension, for reasons advanced, such an extension shall not be for a period exceeding 7 days from the day it is granted,” Rasheed said. But, in a another statement, Babayemi’s lawyer, Edmund Biriomoni, while while interpreting the sine die adjournment of the suit, argued that “Babayemi remains the legally recognised flagbearer of the party for the July 16 governorship election.” Biriomoni said, “On the 3rd of March, 2022, the Court granted an order recognising the Ward Executive Officers of the party that produced the 215 delegates. On the 10th of March again, the Court declared through its Order of Mandatory Interim Injunction, that Babayemi was the legally recognized candidate of the party, having been elected by delegates backed by the law.” Therefore, he said Babayemi remains PDP’s candidate because of the subsisting orders. “The Court orders of 3rd and 10th of March, 2022 ,are still subsisting; valid and binding on parties concerned. Omo Oba Dotun Babayemi still remains the candidate of the party. Yes, the implication is that the status quo remains; it means the court will go comatose till they finish from Court of Appeal. They have shot themselves at the foot. It means that the status quo remains which implies that the two earlier court orders granted in favour of the plaintiffs are still subsisting,” he noted. 