…say choice violation of party’s principle  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The national stakeholders of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have rejected the purported endorsement of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the consensus candidate for the position of national chairman. Speaking at a media briefing in Abuja on Tuesday, the national spokesman of the group, Aliyu Audi said “The lingering and now widespread speculation as to the plan to bring a former member of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in the person of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the APC National Chairman in the forthcoming Convention, where loyal, qualified and competent foundation members of the APC are also in the race is not only an aberration but a violation of the established principle of APC which respects long term fidelity to the party and frowns at every vestige of injustice. “As stakeholders, we have always been against imposition in whatever guise, considering our belief that whenever a consensus option is adopted, as long as it is not predated by wide consultation, it would no doubt violate every known democratic ethos and principles. “While it is within his constitutional rights to vie for any position within the APC or even the country as a whole, we believe that the individuals who are purportedly behind the plot to make Senator Abdullahi Adamu the next APC National Chairman cannot sit down alone in their zones and decide who gets what, more so when the individual in question is of the PDP stock. “We believe also that Senator Abdullahi Adamu, aside not deserving of the coveted seat in the All Progressives Congress ahead of many other aspirants who have unwavering belief in the ideals of our great party and have laboured day and night for its success, he has not demonstrated any commitment of being young people inclined, especially at a time that the young members of APC who constitute more than 80% of the membership have been singing about marginalization and non-inclusion. “His recent assignment as the chairman of the reconciliation committee is a case in hand. Even though he failed grossly in reconciling aggrieved members of our party, particularly from all the states he visited, Senator Adamu failed to accord recognition to the critical mass of young people in the party who are even more aggrieved by the people he consulted during the so called reconciliation process. “Added to the issue of his capacity and competence is the issue of his unresolved cases with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The APC, especially as a party that prides itself as one that frowns against corruption cannot afford to have any individual with questions to answer as her leader and we, the stakeholders will not be party to any sort of travesty on our party’s anti-corruption ideology.” Recalling his antecedents and roles he played in the former President Olusegun Obasanjo’ bid for third term which he unapologetically supported, the Rebirth APC spokesman said, “Additionally, he does not possess the democratic credentials that should be exemplary of a National Chairman in a party like the APC, considering that he was one of the strong proponents of Obasanjo’s third term agenda. If that agenda had succeeded, the beneficiary may be sitting as a lifetime president today, but we wonder if that development would have deepened democracy so much as to have a progressive party like the APC which some interest now want to hand over to Abdullahi Adamu.” The group maintained that the choice of the former governor of Nasarawa State is a dangerous gamble that would lead to implosion in the party more so, when another purported former PDP stalwart, Senator Ken Nnamani is been brandished as the Deputy National Chairman, South. “We are also not unaware of plans to also bring another member of the party from the stock of the People’s Democratic Party in the person of former Senate President Ken Nnamani, to serve as the Deputy National Chairman (South) of All Progressives Congress. “While he is known publicly to be a member of the All Progressives Congress, there are several instances where his loyalty to the party has been questioned. Information out there is that he has continued to be a member of APC in the day time and a member of PDP at night, and while this information has not been proven to be true, the APC would be playing safe by refusing to hand over such an important position of Deputy National Chairman to a man whose loyalty once completely lied in the opposition. “At this point in the life of the APC, what we need is a leader that can midwife us away from the damages caused to the party over the years and definitely not an individual who does not originally share in the ideals of the APC nor one whose temperament and level of tolerance will further deepen the disappointments of already disillusioned party members. “As stakeholders we would rather throw our weight behind an aspirant whose integrity is unquestionable, someone who has demonstrated a proven capacity for youth inclusion and the ability to harvest the energy of young people to drive party activities especially in this age of digital and social media mobilization. “We believe our preference is in line with the established commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari to young persons, especially in relation to their political growth. The President has demonstrated this with his accent to the “Not Too Young To Run” Bill, his appointment of a sizeable number of result-driven young people into positions of authority; and the reinforcement of his commitment to the political growth of youths with his recent directive during the visit of the APC Youth Lobby Group. It is our belief that the President’s commitment to holistic youth inclusion must be reflected across board, especially in the choice of the Chairman of the ruling party which we believe must be someone who will not only represent the aspirations of young people in the party but also be willing to carry them along. “We therefore believe that any endorsement of Senator Abdullahi Adamu, either purported or real, as the chairman of our party is a very dangerous gamble, one that signals a return of our much beloved progressive party to the hands of the original PDP members,” he said. 