 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The Buhari House national secretariat of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja was agog on Monday as the national chairman of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Gov. Mai Mala Buni, resumed after two weeks of medical vacation abroad. The Chairman who was received by members of the CECPC on Thursday last week arrived office to a rousing welcome by the staff who celebrated his return. He also held a meeting with the CECPC members. Also on ground to receive the Yobe State governor were the national secretary of the CECPC, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, Senator Ken Nnamani and others while the governor of Niger State Abubakar Sani Bello, who acted as the chairman when Buni was away, was not in the meeting. Meanwhile, Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodimma, during his visit to the Buhari House told the media that the governors of APC have settled their differences and are going into the Saturday, March 26 National Convention as a united body. Gov. Uzodimma said “We are united. APC governors are united. We have settled our differences now we are going to our national convention as a united body. There is no crisis in the party.” Earlier, the Chairman of the Media Committee of the All Progressives Congress, APC Convention, Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nassarawa State said the party’s Governors have resolved their differences and put behind them all the bickering witnessed in the recent weeks. Governor Abdullahi Sule who spoke at the formal inauguration of the Media Committee and its various subcommittees said “ the Leadership of the party under Governor Mai Mala and the members of the caretaker committee are making every effort to take everyone along and I believe it is the only path for a successful Convention and victory at elections. We believe in unity in diversity, and this is the mantra of our Convention.” He said all is well in the party and the plans for the Convention taking place on the 26th of March are fully on course. Meanwhile the Committee has broken into subcommittees that have speedily moved  on their various assignments aimed at delivering a successful Convention six days from today. In a related development, the APC National Convention Screening Sub-Committee headed by Katsina State governor, Bello Masari has invited aspirants for the excercise. In an invitation signed by the Secretary of the Screening Committee, Emmanuel Chukwuemeka Otagburuagu, the aspirants will be screened in two batches at the Katsina State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro-Abuja. The invitation reads: “His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Aminu Bello Masari, CFR the Chairman and Rt. Hon. Dimeji Bankole, CFR,  the Co-Chairman of the APC 2022 National Convention Screening Committee, hereby invites all the aspirants to the Screening Excercise scheduled as follows: Tuesday 22nd  March 2022, Screening of National Chairman  and other National Working Committee Aspirants.
Venue: Katsina State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro Abuja. Wednesday, 23rd March 2022, Screening of Aspirants into the Zonal  offices
Time: 10am
Venue: Katsina State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro, Abuja.” 