 BY ANDREW EKEJIUBA Nigeria’s caretaker manager Augustine Eguavoen has revealed that one of his key players in his ideal starting lineup, Samuel Chukwueze suffered a knock during the 2022 World Cup playoff against Ghana on Friday night and may not be ruled out of the second leg in Abuja on Tuesday. The Villarreal winger, who has started four of the five matches with Eguavoen in the dugout, made way for Watford star Emmanuel Dennis fourteen minutes into the second half and it has come to light that it was an injury-enforced substitution. Chukwueze was with the Super Eagles team at the National Stadium in Abuja during Saturday evening’s recovery workout but was among the players excused from the training session. Eguavoen is hoping that the ‘minor injury’ suffered by Chukwueze will not prevent him from being ready for the upcoming game against Ghana. The 1994 Africa Cup of Nations winner praised his team for holding their own against Ghana despite the intimidating atmosphere created by the fans. “Currently, the players are in high spirits, we are more than half way through and the boys know it. “I had a word with them a while ago, and I doff my hat to them because they were resilient. They worked hard in such an atmosphere, so I think it was a very good result. “Few of them that had knock like Chukwueze, we just want to rest him, a complete rest, and then he can probably resume tomorrow,” Eguavoen told The Point with optimism. Chukwueze missed the first two months of this campaign due to a long-term injury he was recovering from and didn’t feature in all the six matches played by the Super Eagles in the second round of the 2022 World Cup qualifiers. Aribo gets Amokachi’s praise Ex-Nigerian international Daniel Amokachi has revealed what impressed him about Joe Aribo despite missing scoring chances against Ghana in the first leg on Friday last week. Amokachi praised Aribo for his performance especially in the first half during the Super Eagles’ goalless draw against Ghana. The Rangers star performer probably had the best chance to find the back of the net for the Super Eagles five minutes to the end of the half when he made a terrific run into the box but his effort, with his weaker right foot, went over the bar. In a very cagey affair at the Baba Yara Stadium, Napoli striker Victor Osimhen was starved of service, with the Ghanaians nullifying Nigeria’s threat by clipping the wings of Moses Simon and Samuel Chukwueze. In his halftime analysis, former Everton striker Amokachi highlighted that Aribo has the ability to get into advanced positions despite the fact he is usually deployed as a holding midfielder for the national team. Amokachi said on SuperSport: “It was a beautiful through ball by Aina to Aribo and then he shielded his body very, very well and he got to that position. “If you are a left-footer in that position it is always difficult but the most important thing is creating those chances. “You have a midfield player running into the box and he gives hope for the team and for the manager.” Aribo was substituted on the hour mark to the amazement of many Super Eagles fans as he was arguably the best outfield player on the pitch. The Rangers ace took part in the recovery workout on Saturday evening. Musa appeals to fans to back Eagles Nigeria captain Ahmed Musa has appealed to football fans to support the Super Eagles from the stands in Tuesday evening’s 2022 World Cup playoff against Ghana at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja. Africa’s most successful team in World Cup history in terms of points accumulated, Nigeria are in a strong position to qualify for their seventh tournament after holding the Black Stars to a goalless draw at the Baba Yara Stadium on Friday night. Apart from facing a difficult team and playing the game on a bad pitch, the Super Eagles had to deal with the boisterous partisan Ghanaian fans and showed character to earn a draw. Musa is encouraging Nigeria fans to borrow a leaf out of the Black Stars supporters’ by turning out en masse to cheer on the Super Eagles to victory on Tuesday evening. “We are only as strong as we are united, as weak as we are divided. J.K. Rowling,” Musa wrote on social media at the weekend. “The unity exhibited in the game in Ghana is one that we seek for in our game on Tuesday. “Your massive turnout and support will be invaluable for the desired result. Hope to see you then. UP EAGLES”. A two-time World Cupper, Musa was one of the seven substitutes not utilized off the bench in the goalless draw against Ghana in Kumasi. 