 The Joint Action Committee of the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions and Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities have indicated the resolve to embark on indefinite strike. The JAC Public Relations Officer, Peters Adeyemi, said on Thursday that the Federal Government failed to honour the agreements reached with the unions. Adeyemi said, “The contemptuous attitude of government further incensed our members who resolved that following the failure of government to even invite the leaderships for a meeting, the strike should be extended by another two weeks before an indefinite and total strike is declared. “As at today, the two weeks extension is getting to the middle and with no response in sight from government. We may be left with no result but to embark on an indefinite and total strike. This is gradually becoming unavoidable and inevitable. “Recall that the Joint Action Committee of NASU and SSANU had embarked on an industrial action which started on Friday, February 5th, 2021, and culminated in a Memorandum of Action signed on Thursday, February 20th, 2021. Prior to this, we had embarked on a 14-day warning strike which culminated in a Memorandum of Understanding signed on Tuesday, 20th October, 2020. “It is pertinent to note that the issues that led to the Memorandum of Understanding of October 2020 and the Memorandum of Action of February, 2021 are the same issues that have led to this strike action of March, 2022. It needs being said that these same issues had led to previous Collective Bargaining Agreements with the government in 2017, and 2018 before the agreements reached in 2020 and 2021. “Going by this, therefore, it is easy to conclude that the recurring cause of industrial unrests in our Universities and Inter-University Centres, especially between the JAC of NASU and SSANU and the Federal Government, has been the total disrespect and contemptuous disregard for Collective Bargaining Agreements by the government. “The above issue, among others, represent the core of our disagreement with the government. Arising from the last memorandum and following up on the issues, we had written no less than 10 letters or reminders to the government to no avail, not even an acknowledgement. “The letters of reminder included those dated 26th July 2021; 18th August 2021; 25th October 2021; 22nd November 2021; 24th February 2022; 1st March 2022 and 16th March 2022. “It was at the end of all these reminders with no acknowledgement by the government that we were left with no other resort but to embark on a two weeks warning strike. Prior to the strike, due process was duly followed and the notice were issued in line with the extant laws. Shamefully and painfully, there was no attempt by the government to intercept or even invite the unions to a meeting.” 