 The Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams, has said that the passage of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, would foster unity among the traditional institutions. Adams spoke during his visit to the palace in Oyo, on Sunday. According to him, many monarchs in Youbaland, including the late Alaafin usually disagreed on history despite agreeing on the development of the zone. He said that “His (Alaafin’s) transition will foster more unity because in traditional institution, soldier go soldier come. There is no empty of baracks and the stakeholders will work towards unity. “We are praying to God for somebody who will be equiped with wisdom to succeed him because the position is so unique and strategic. Definably, his transition will foster unity because we have many Obas in Youbaland and you may see them disagreeing on history but they don’t disagree on interest that will move Yoruba forward. “I know many Obas that have called me since the demise of Kabiyesi. Even in our extreme North of Yorubaland, Akoko, about six or seven Obas have called to sympathise with me on the demise of Kabiyesi. So definitely, there will be a unity based on his transition. “It is a great loss to the entire Yoruba race. Kabiyesi is an epitome of wisdom, blessed with knowledge. He was an orator and lecturer. He was always resolute on issues. He was someone who had a large heart to resolve issues. For somebody to hold Oyo for a period of 52 years, you will realize the kind of potentials he had. Oyo is a town with rich history. “It is a town people described as a town of culture. During the reign of Kabiyesi, he ensured that people didn’t toy with culture and traditions. He was the only Alaafin who installed two Aare Onakakanfos in the history of Yoruba race. You can see the transformation that was in Oyo during his reign. About six universities are cited in Oyo. “He used his influence to bring development to the ancient town. This is not the first Oyo but he used his influence to develop Oyo. He didn’t allow the pride of the people to diminish during his reign. People classified him as freedom fighter. During the struggle of NADECO, he stood with MKO Abiola and the masses.” 