 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A traditional ruler in Osun State, the Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, has appealed to the management and staff of the Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo over the attack on their workers by some of his subjects. About six indigenes of Iwo were said to have attacked some staff of the hospital after their parent, who was admitted on the hospital gave up the ghost. In a statement signed by Oluwo through his press secretary, Alli Ibraheem, on Thursday, the monarch, urged the hospital management not to Institute legal suit against their attackers. Oba Akanbi said, “On behalf of the reasonable people of Iwo Kingdom, I hereby appeal to the Chief Medical Director and the extended management body of Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo against the unruly, indecent and uncouth attacked on members of staff by six Iwo youths who attacked some members of staff of the health facility in reaction to the death of their parent on admission at the health facility. “No doubt, the perpetrators conducted themselves in an uncultured manner affecting public peace and human dignity. As a responsible king, I don’t tolerate immoral act.  I have scolded them and they were sober. They came crying and pledged to turn a new leaf. “Their action is against what I preach. I appeal for forgiveness on their behalf. They have realized their mistake and pledged to subsequently conduct themselves in an upright and honourable manner. “I extend my appeal to the Osun Chapter of the  Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Association of Resident Doctors of UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital,  Doctors and Nurses who were direct victims of the assault. “Please, consider the future of these children. They are graduates. Sending them to prison may jeopardize their future. Realising  today’s mistake may  enhance  rethink for their future public conducts. “With utmost sense of respect for human dignity, and the Holy month of Ramadan, I once again seek your forgiveness for the perpetrators. Your singular forgiveness may turn them a new leaf to teach others on moral public conduct. Do accept their apology on my behalf.” 