 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The seven man caretaker committee appointed by Iyorchia Ayu led National Working committee of the Peoples Democratic Party to steer the ship of the party in Osun State ahead of the July 16 governorship election in the state and the 2023 General Elections, on Friday resumed duties. Addressing a press conference in Osogbo, the Chairman of the committee, Dr Adekunle Akindele said the gubernatorial candidate of the party in Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke would defeat Governor Gboyega Oyetola of the ruling All Progressives Congress with wide margin. Akindele urged aggrieved members of the party to embrace peace and support the party to be victorious in the forthcoming elections. He said the people of the state were already tired of the APC rule and pleaded with party members to shun such acts capable of depleting the faith and enthusiasm of the people towards the PDP. “Without much ado, our task is very simple and well laid out. We are to work assiduously with critical stakeholders, esteemed members of our party and the suffering masses of Osun to bring home the much awaited victory of their own government. “We will consolidate on the goodwill already harvested for the party by the Hon Sunday Bisi led team whose tenure had just lapsed. The party is indeed blessed to have the team around at a time the we required tested hands with so much trust by all segments of the populace. May God Almighty continues to bless them. “This Committee like I said, will be focused in line with dictates of our assignment. Already, a high powered Stakeholders meeting has been called for Monday 18th of April, while screening of Aspirants for the three houses of assembly, house of representatives and the senate will follow up on Tuesday, 19th through Wednesday 20th of April. “Aspirants into various political offices as applicable on the banner of our great party are enjoined to prepare themselves accordingly as these activities are in conformity with tasks ahead of us as a party and in strict compliance with the letters of the new Electoral Act. I want to assure leaders of our party that we will work to conquer together. We will work as advocates of peace and unity for the good of all. We will work to usher in a government of the people through our party flagbearer, Senator Ademola Jackson Nurudeen Adeleke. “Within my brief stint in the state, I can attest to the overwhelming acceptability of our candidate among the populace and so as a party, we will work with him to actualize the dream of a new dawn by the people. While I urge the good people of Osun State to remain unwavering in their faith in the PDP, I also plead with members of our party to shun such acts capable of depleting the faith and enthusiasm of the people towards our party. It is time to come together and redouble our efforts to lead army of our people to victory. “The door of this committee is open to all for productive advice going forward, as no one is made to be jack of wisdom. It is also time for everyone who is still displeased with past activities of the party to sheath their swords and join hands with the party in a bid to forge a formidable front in the interest of our people,” the caretaker chairman said. 