 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Screening Committee headed by former Senate President, David Mark, on Friday cleared 15 out of the 17 aspirants disqualifying two. Addressing the media at the end of the screening exercise, Senator Mark said, “The exercise, as far as we’re concerned, has gone on very well. We’ve been here since morning, and I’m sure you people have been here since morning also. “We’ve been very thorough this time around. See how much time we’ve taken to screen each individual who has been here. We screened 17 aspirants, which is quite a number. We cleared 15, two have not been cleared. “Now don’t ask me those who have been cleared and those who have not been cleared because I won’t tell you. We haven’t released the result to them. So if you ask question in that direction, you’re wasting time. I think on the whole that’s what we’ve done. And we’re quite satisfied with the standard of the aspirants by and large. And we think that any one of them who gets the ticket would win the election in 2023. He said those who failed to scale through the hurdles didn’t meet the requirements but refused to be specific. However, he stated that his Committee will be sending the report on the screening to the National Working Committee (NWC) this night ( Friday night) but added that those who were not cleared can seek redress at the Appeals Committee. “This night! We’ll submit and then those who were not cleared have a right to appeal. I’m sure they will go on appeal becasue there is an appeal panel. Senator Mark said the committee is impressed by the quality and calibre of persons vying for the country’s number one position. “We feel that they are all very well qualified, those we’ve cleared. And that like I just said anyone of them who is picked will win the 2023 presidential election. He discarded the idea of the party refunding their money paid for the forms. “Why should they refund the money? What will be the reason for the refund,” he asked. 