 The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, has confirmed the appointment of Chief Superintendent of Police, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, as the 25th indigenous Force Public Relations Officer. This was contained in a statement issued in Abuja on Tuesday by the Administrative Officer in the Force Public Relations Department, Superintendent of Police, Anjuguri Jesse Manzah. Adejobi was appointed in acting capacity on February 16, 2022 after taking over from Commissioner of Police, Frank Mba, who was nominated by the Inspector-General of Police for the Senior Executive Course at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru, Jos. Adejobi studied Archeology and Geography (Combined Honours) from the University of Ibadan. He holds a Master’s degree in Peace and Conflict Studies from the same University. He had a long stint as Police Public Relations Officer in Ogun State Police Command from 2008 -2016. He also served as PPRO Zone 2 Headquarters, Onikan, Lagos, in 2016 and PPRO, Lagos State Police Command between September, 2020 and August, 2021, when he was posted to deputize the former Force PRO, Mba. Adejobi has carved a niche for himself in Police Public Relations Management with the experience he has gained serving as PPRO in different Police Commands and Zone for more than a decade. He has also served as Operations Officer, OC Anti Bank Robbery and Anti Pipeline Vandalization, Sagamu Division from 2006 to 2008; Admin Officer, Department of Operations, Police Headquarters, Ogun State in 2008; Operations Officer, Department of Operations, Lagos State Command Ikeja in 2017; Directing Staff, Police College Ikeja; and as Personal Assistant to The Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Department of Operations, Force Headquarters, Abuja. He is a member of several professional bodies and associations, which include: Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR); International Public Relations Association (IPRA); Point Man Leadership Institute, USA; International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP), USA; Society for Peace Studies and Practice (SPSP); Boys Brigade Nigeria; and the Institute of Corporate Administration, Nigeria. 