 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, has vowed not to resign as Minister of Labour after his party, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Wednesday, asked political appointees in the party seeking elective offices to resign by Saturday. The party, in its efforts to abide by the provisions of the amended Electoral Act, directed cabinet ministers and other executive appointees at both state and federal levels, to resign their appointments if they intend to participate in its forthcoming primary elections. Defying his party’s directive however, Dr Ngige on Wednesday, told newsmen at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, that he has no knowledge of any law requiring him to resign to contest the presidential ticket of the APC at least, 30 days before the conduct of party primaries. He based his decision not to resign on the provisions of the 1999 constitution as amended, while also citing the March 18 judgement of the Federal High Court in Umuahia, which struck out section 84(12) of the Electoral Act, obviating the need for appointees to resign their appoint. Ngige said: “Because I don’t know about that I’m hearing for the first time from you. But like I always say, I’ll be guided by the letters and spirit of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “You are pushing me into something that is not necessary to discuss because that aspect of the law enacted by the National Assembly, via the Electoral Act, that section 84(12) has been struck down by a court of law and the cases are on appeal. And for now, no matter how bad the judgement is, that’s the maximum jurisprudence, no matter how bad the law is, it is a judgement of the court, it should be obeyed, until upturned or stayed. “But there is no stay, there’s no atonement of that particular pronouncement, and the party is on appeal. So the judgement is still subsisting, that aspect of the law was injurious to some persons and should not have been there. “I also know that the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in certain sections, section 107, 137 and 88, prescribes disqualification clauses for people who are going for election and that prescription is supreme because it’s in the constitution and the constitution is grand-norm of all laws,” Ngige added. 