 Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, has urged political parties to consider women as running mates to candidates seeking elective positions in the country. Buhari spoke on Saturday night when hosting Presidential aspirants from various political parties to a Ramadan (Iftar) breakfast at the State House, Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the Iftar was organised by the first lady to provide opportunity for the aspirants to share love and happiness with one another in the spirit of Ramadan and in a quest for nation building. She said, “In fact, it is high time women are adopted as running mates at all levels considering their voting strength and active involvement in political processes. “As we approach the 2023 election with greater hope, I am confident that Nigeria will continue to grow from strength to strength on the pedestal of our democratic tenets.” The first lady enjoined the aspirants to remain focused on issues that strengthened the nation’s unity, brotherhood and national cohesion. She recalled that the 2015 election was a watershed in the history of Nigeria, saying that “It was neither contested in the court of law, nor in the court of public opinion. “Therefore, the greatest end-of-tenure gift that fellow Nigerians can give to the first family is another free and globally-acknowledged fair election come 2023.’’ She urged all aspirants to ensure tolerance, fair play and avoid violence during electioneering campaigns. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, represented by a former governor of Edo State, Prof. Oserheimen Osunbor, urged all aspirants to play politics without bitterness, saying, “It is an opportunity for aspirants from various political parties to meet one another and the lesson we should learn from here is to practise politics without bitterness as we move closer to election year. “We should try to imbibe the spirit of oneness because at the end, only one person is going to emerge winner of the Presidential election next year. “So, it is not going to be do-or-die; we should learn to practise politics without bitterness.’’ (NAN). 