 No fewer than 10 commanders of the Islamic State of the West African Province have been reportedly executed by the Jama’at Ahl as-Sunnah lid-Da’wah wa’l-Jihad faction of Boko Haram in the North East of Lake Chad, Zagazola Makama, a counter-insurgency expert, has said. Makama alleged that the Boko Haram faction of the Buduma overwhelmed the ISWAP in a gun battle which resulted in the killing of many fighters on the river bank between Kadunan Ruwa and Kandahar axis of the Niger Republic. He stated that many fighters drowned in the water while 10 ISWAP fighters were caught alive by the Buduma’s in the aftermath of the battle. A video showed the two terrorist groups in a heavy gun battle in a boat on top of the water. Two ISWAP commanders were reportedly interrogated before being relocated to be slaughtered in a video. An Amir of the Buduma’s group suspected to be Mohammed Ari, a deadly Spiritual Warfare Commander, who appeared in the video, said that God continued to give them the opportunity to defeat their enemies (ISWAP). He said, “We are the Mujahideens from the Jama’at Ahl as-Sunnah lid-Da’wah wa’l-Jihad faction in Lake Chad. “As you are aware, there has been an intensified infighting between us and our enemies (ISWAP) for the past few months and Allah has been giving us victories to eliminate our enemies. “We have arrested about 10 of them including some of their top commanders and we have asked them why they are waging war against us. And, the Commander said, they don’t have any reason but they are just fighting us. “So, even your leaders that you followed blindly said he doesn’t know why he is fighting us talk more of you his followers. “Initially, we are doing the same thing and going on the same path before you changed and started to deviate from the teachings of God and start to practice all sort of evil ways. “We are, therefore, assuring you that Almighty God will continue to give us victory to eliminate all of you from the surface of earth. “On March 24 and 28, 2022, the JAS terrorists Loyal to the Bakura Buduma, ambushed and eliminated about 45 terrorists in Yauma Wango and Ngaama, in Abadam Local Government Area of Borno State.” 