.Suspect dies during police investigation  BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Osun State Police Command has arrested three youths for allegedly killing one of their friends and removing his heart for ritual purposes. According to a statement by the police Public Relations Officer, Yemisi Opalola, a Superintendent of Police, the suspects are 25 years old Olayade Kehinde, Olufemi Oriyomi, aged 21, and Raimi Sheriff, 21. Opalola said the suspected ritualists were nabbed in Ile-Ife while riding a motorcycle and that when a team of policemen stopped them, they had fled before they were chased and arrested. She added that a human heart and assorted charms were found in their possession and that the suspects claimed that the heart was removed from the body of their friend that they killed. “On April 7, 2022 at about 11:00am along Osogbo/OAU Ife Campus Road, the police detectives on ‘stop and search’ duty accosted three men on motorcycle, they were flagged down, but rather than stop, sped off, and were pursued. “They were eventually arrested at Safejo area of Ile-ife, and while searching, human heart, which they claimed was one of their friend’s and various criminal charms were found on them,” the PPRO explained. However, one of the suspects, Oriyomi, was said to have died and after falling ill in the police custody. Opalola said, “as discreet investigation was ongoing, one of the suspects named Olufemi Oriyomi fell sick and was taken to hospital for treatment, but unfortunately, he died while on admission and the corpse has been deposited at state hospital for autopsy. “The remaining two suspects will be charged to court upon conclusion of investigation,” she added. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Olawale Olokode has warned youths against get-rich-quick syndrome and also implored parents and guardians to advise their wards against keeping bad company. “The Commissioner of Police, CP Olawale Olokode, wishes to use this medium to advise parents to monitor their children, and warn them against bad company they might be moving with. “He also admonishes the youths to always engage in lawful business, and shun anything that will jeopardise their brighter future, which includes all forms of ‘get rich quick’ syndrome,” the statement read. 