 Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has been urged to reflect on the seven years of his administration in the state with a resolve to address his shortcomings as he clocks 61. Giving this urge on the birth anniversary of the governor in a message was the Tiv Youth Council Worldwide, a socio-cultural organisation in the state. The birthday message signed by the President of the group, Mike Msuaan, read, “His Excellency, we wish to join your family, friends, well-wishers, political associates and Benue State in celebrating you on your 61st birthday anniversary. It is our prayer that God will continue to bless and keep you. No doubt you have enjoyed His Grace. He has taken you from grass to grace. “Last year, in a practical demonstration of his grace, He enabled you to trek 5 kilometres and still run 1.5 kilometres when your attackers laid ambush on you in the forest. Even their bullets passed you ‘Fion Fion Fion,’ in fulfilment of the Biblical protection in Psalm 91: 7 that ‘A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you. In saving your life during several other instances, God was giving you more time, perhaps to serve humanity more. “At 61, you have reached the age when a leader or someone begins to think and work more for the legacies he would be remembered for. It is most compelling when you are a leader. This is also the time one retires from active service to enjoy his/her pension and other benefits. On this day of your birth, and as you approach seven years in office, you must reflect on your life, and most importantly, your stewardship as governor and see if you have left Benue and the Tiv nation better than when you assumed office in terms of projects, federal appointments and presence. “While the security vote allocated to the state has remained huge, the killings, displacements and refugee crisis in Benue have continued to be worse than has ever been witnessed before under your watch as the purported defender of the Benue Valley. “Sir, during your campaign, you promised to move Benue from a civil service state to an industrial hub using your experience as an entrepreneur and erstwhile Minister of Trade and Investment. About a year to the end of your tenure, not even a cottage industry has been built or revived, rather you have slated industries built by your predecessors for sale in a nebulous privatization bid. The only industry in the state. The civil service has continued to nosedive under your watch. Your experience as Minister of Trades and later Aviation have brought nothing to the Benue people as pain and misery. “The civil servants and pensioners who moved you to tears during your campaign have continued to protest on the street of Makurdi, the state capital, for numerous months and for some years of non-payment of pensions and salaries. This is against all the Holy Books of Christianity and Islam. This is time to correct these ugly cycles in your political life and rewrite the history of your legacies.” 