 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, has disclosed that his administration has empowered 5,296 small scale business owners with over N2 billion since inception in 2018. Oyetola said his administration would continue to provide an enabling environment for small scale businesses to thrive adding that Osun remained a fertile ground for businesses to grow and flourish. Oyetola said this during an engagement programme organised by the Civic Engagement Office with members of Association of Mobile Telecommunication Engineers of Nigeria , Osun Chapter, held in Osogbo on Wednesday. The governor, who spoke through his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Hon. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, said since inception, his administration had been embarking on infrastructural development, providing soft loans for small businesses, ensuring adequate security, as well as, coming up with tax friendly policies  for business owners. The governor, who said his administration
 through the state’s Microcredit Agency had  empowered 5,296 small scale business owners with over N 2 billion to expand their businesses, added that the agency  had also disbursed about N 91million to different categories of informal sector operators in the state. “My administration will continue to promote small scale industries through initiatives, programmes and policies that will build business confidence, and encourage them through provision of grants and loans. “Small businesses contribute to local economies by bringing growth and innovation to the community in which the businesses are established. They also help to stimulate economic growth by providing employment opportunities for the people. “Small businesses tend to attract talent who invent new products or implement new solutions for existing ideas,” he said. The governor noted that it was in the realisation of the economic benefits of the small scale businesses that his administration had been putting in place necessary infrastructure for businesses to thrive. He said small scale businesses are a vital part of the economy, which no government will want to play with. The governor commended  members of the association for  their support for his administration and urged them to also  support his re-election in July 16 governorship election in the state. In his remarks, the President of the association, Andulrasak Ejalinibu, commended the governor on various friendly business policies for the survival of small scale businesses in the state. Ejalonibu appealed to the governor to continue to support members of the association with soft loans to boost their businesses. 