 The World Bank, on Sunday, said that it would provide a total of US$700million to the Federal Government to implement Agro-Climatic Resilience in Semi-Arid Landscapes project in some Northern states in the country. Sanjay Srivastave, Practice Manager, Environmental, Nature Resources and Blue Economy, West and Central Africa, World Bank, told the News Agency of Nigeria in an interview in Abuja that the World Bank initiated the programme in collaboration with the Ministries of Environment, Agriculture and Rural Development and Water Resources. Srivastave said that the objective of the project was to address environmental challenges, provide water system and restore degraded lands for agriculture. He said that the World Bank was excited about the programme, adding that the project would cover the desert states in the Northern part of the country. “We are working with the federal, state and local governments. The World Bank is providing US$ 700 million to finance the government through the ministry of finance. “This is to ensure that the project is implemented effectively using a new technology to improve in addressing the environmental challenges and the project is going to last for five years. “The project will address the environmental challenges which include climate change, erosion and flood, biodiversity and land degradation, among others in the country. “The issue of desertification in those states are on a high rate and if something is not done, it will continue extending, affecting a lot of productive lands in the states, thereby causing poor production. “So, the project is to restore the degraded lands. The project will also address issues of water stress which is already drying up in those states. “We want to ensure that there will be access to good water as it will be available to farmers for their agriculture and the people in those communities as well,” he said. He urged the people of the benefitting states to support the World Bank team and the Federal Government’s effort, stating that the project would assist the poor by providing means of livelihood. (NAN).