 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA A group known as Project Nigeria in support of the Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, has formally confirmed the interest of their principal to contest the 2023 presidential election with the purchase of the N100 million expression of interest and nomination forms of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the party’s primary. The coalition of some young political groups #Project Nigeria Group that purchased the forms on Wednesday, promised to hand it over to him. Addressing newsmen after picking the nomination forms, member House of Representatives, Rep Chidi Nwogu claimed that Nwajiuba’s young age will be an advantage to him. He said, “Hon Nwajiuba is one of the oldest and most reliable politicians. Not old in terms of age, he is actually a young person. And you can see a young group who are supporting him. This is actually a young group because of the not-too-young-to-run act. “The president promised that this time around anyone who is going to run for presidency must be under 60 and these young people came together. When I saw their seriousness I decided to coordinate with one group. We put together the money and have come today to show the seriousness by being the first to purchase this form. They find him credible and hardworking. “For 30 years, he has been in politics, unblemished, very humble, open door policy lawmaker and a very major supporter of the party and a detribalised Nigerian. This form is actually put together by persons from 36 States and it is also an opportunity to make case if at all we are making a case for South-east Presidency, we are also making a case for the president of Nigeria chosen by Nigerians not necessarily because he is from the South-East but because he is young, reliable, and very experienced. “In the 30 years he has been in politics, he has been at the executive level, doctor of law, he is also on the legislative arm, as a legislator, he has also contested governoship so many times. He has been a very reliable person,” he said 