 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A Chief Magistrate’s Court in Osogbo, Osun State, has ordered that a male septuagenarian, Isiaka Owoo; and a 53-year-old man, Ajibowu Azeez, should be remanded for allegedly beating two men to coma over a piece of land. Owoo, aged 75, and Azeez were reported to have hired some hoodlums to beat the victims with sticks and other dangerous weapons till they passed out. According to Police prosecutor, Inspector Elisha Olusegun, passersby rushed the victims, Azeez Alabi and Sanusi Tajudeen, to the hospital. Olusegun informed the court that the defendants, armed with cutlasses and other dangerous weapons, after attempting to kill the victims, forced themselves into the piece of land under contention and damaged some economic trees on March 19 at Alapata area, Okinni in Egbedore Local Government Area of the state. The charge brought against the defendants read that “You Ajibowu Azeez, and Isiaka Owoo, and others now at large on March 19, 2022 at about 10am at Alapata area, Okinni, did conspire among yourselves to commit felony to wit attempted murder and assault occasioning harm. “You did attempt to kill one Azeez Alabi by commanding some hoodlums now at large to beat him with sticks and other dangerous weapons until he fainted. “You did attempt to kill one Sanusi Tajudeen by beating him with sticks and other dangerous weapons until he fainted severally. You beat him to a state of coma “You forcibly entered into a piece of land which is in peaceful and actual possession of Abdulazeez Ajayi Babatunde. You willfully and maliciously damaged some economic trees and cash crops lying on a piece of land which is in possession of Babatunde. “You did arm yourselves with cutlasses and other dangerous weapons in such a manner to cause terror to Babatunde, Azeez Alabi and Sanusi Tajudeen.” Olusegun said that the offences committed by Owoo and Azeez contravened sections 80, 516, 517, 320, 81, 451, 252 and were punishable under Section 355 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II, Laws of Osun State, 2002. The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges. Their counsel, A. Oladipupo, urged the court to grant them bail. The prosecutor objected to the bail application on the grounds that the injured victims were still in critical conditions at the State Hospital, Osogbo. He added that if granted, they would jump bail. Meanwhile, Chief Magistrate Olusegun Ayilara has ordered that the defendants be remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre. He adjourned the matter till April 19 for consideration of bail. 