 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The Campaign Organisation of Governor Yahaya Bello for President has declared that zoning of the presidential ticket for the 2023 general elections in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) should be based on competence and not on tribe or religion. Speaking at a media parley with the APC Press Corps in Abuja on Tuesday, the Kogi State Commissioner for Information, Kingsley Fanwo, said in the past, zoning has destroyed the country because it was done based on religious or tribal sentiments. He declared that Nigerians will not succumb to the perennial destruction which was imposed on them in the guise of zoning. “People are talking about zoning or rotation of presidency. Past zoning has destroyed the country because it was based on tribe and religion but this time around, the only zoning that will be possible is zoning to competence. “If you are traveling from where you are living, say Abuja to Awka, will you ask the tribe or religion of the driver before you travel in the car he is driving. I know all you want to know is how competent the driver is before joining the vehicle. This is the right thing for Nigerians to ask for. The competence of those jostling to lead the country and not where they come from or their religion.” Fanwo maintained that the level of devastations the country has suffered proves that Nigerians should be interested in who will lead the country back to progress not where he comes from. He added that no one makes a choice of his birth place but noted that such primodial sentiments should be done away with in this dispensation. “Until we challenge the status quo, that idiosyncratic page must be broken before you can be talking of progressing as a nation as a people. So it’s no more about rotation.The governor said, I’m going to quote him now. ‘I was born in North Central. I was born an Egbira man. I did not choose to be an Egbira, I did not choose to be a norther. That should not determine the criteria for hiring leaders.’
We always bring these to politics. We don’t use it in other places. “When you are sick and taken to the hospital, and they will say you need an operation. You will not ask the administrative Secretary that the person who is going to treat me is he an Hausaman. You would want a competent medical doctor to attend to you. Whether it’s a Egbira, whether it is Hausa, it doesn’t matter. What matters is if he is competent to attend to you? Now, the driver that will take you from here to  Onitsha, what you are interested in is, is he a good driver. In politics, we use that sentiment, where is he or she coming from?  In 2023, it is going to change.  The zoning may be competence, capacity, patriotism, a unifier, a bridge builder. That is where we are zoning it to. Whether the person is a northerner, Southerner, Igbo, Hausa it does not matter anymore. “We have been having since 1960, are we better off? So that’s where we are going. And that’s what we have come out to challenge because it will take a courageous man like Yahaya Bello to challenge and defeat that  monster before we can be talking about development. “So on rotation, we are ready for the battle ahead. It is going to be about capacity and competence.” The Kogi State commissioner for Information stated that his principal, Governor Yahaya Bello is not intimidated by what other aspirants have achieved in the past because they are in the past but GYB is achieving greatly presently. “GYB is not intimidated by their pedigree, profile experience and exposure and what they’ve done in the past. Now, when you compare that to what someone is doing at the moment, that I think they are the ones that should be intimidated right now. Because it is not about what you have achieved in the past. It’s going to be what you are doing now and what you can do for this nation from 2023. So the governor too has garnered some experience. He has been a chief executive of his state for the past six, seven years. And also, he has been able to see governance at that very close rates. So we are very confident that he’s going to do a great job for Nigeria.” On the issue of consensus, he said, “Our party is a party of rules? I’m very happy you are covering the party. And I’m very sure you avail yourself of the constitution of the party, especially as it affects the mode of selecting candidates for elections. You have all the options; consensus, direct and indirect primaries. “What consensus means is that if I am contesting with Mr. Jide and Roman. Now, what it means is that before you can be talking about consensus,  Mr Jide cannot just come and announce that they have withdrawn. We’ll have to sign a document announcing our withdrawal from that context. That’s what our constitution says, we will follow the constitution. We  cannot make rules and break them. “So what I will say is this, if it’s going to be a contest where people will seek for votes, Yahaya Bello will be there. If it is going to be on consensus, he is basically the youngest, and a serving governor who is performing wonders in unifying, securing and progressing his people, definitely the consensus will be Yahaya Bello. So let’s wait and watch. If it’s going to be a contest where we are going to look for votes we will be there. If it is consensus, it is still going to be GYB.” Fanwo maintained that the youthful governor has no room for regional politics adding that the reason why he chose to declare in Abuja and not in Lokoja is because he has demphasized regional politics. “You know, we have been saying this, we need to de-emphasise the issue of regional champions. This is the center of the nation. This is the capital of the nation. He wants to be the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and not the President of Kogi State. Therefore, it is imperative that you come and talk to the people at the center, where you could bring people from all over the country to come together. This is the place that unites all of us as Nigerians. That is the reason we declared here. “Then we are talking about things affecting the economy, it’s quite funny. It means that we’re still thinking of the past where people would hire buses and pay people to come and cheer them on. The people you saw there were people who are genuine supporters of His Excellency. And you know, there are young people who hired busses and they  ferried their supporters to the place. You know what we have in Kogi state is not enough to waste on hiring crowd. So it’s not about spending state resources. “What we have is for building infrastructure. As you can see, the first flyover in the state is about 80%. completed as we speak. A lot of township roads are going on in Lokoja. We’ve completed 56 kilometers from Anyigba to Idah and a lot of other infrastructure that we have either completed or they are ongoing. So these are the things that will take our resources, not hiring a crowd, we don’t need to hire a crowd. “He is naturally a crowd puller. He is the generational (figure) that his generation believes in. He is a he for she that has empowered women enough for them to have a confidence that with this man as President we don’t need any legislation in the National Assembly to get things for ourselves. So these are the things working for him rather than the issue of hiring crowd. “The second issue that may shape the campaign is the issue of unity. You know, unity is very crucial to our development as a nation and people.  So we need a leadership that will define our national identity as a people. So that first he will think Nigeria and act Nigeria. It is beyond the rhetorics. We’re now practicalising it. In Kogi state that man has done that. When he was sworn in as governor in January 2016. From the stadium so much pressure was on him for his appointment. “You know, what they told him that previous Governors always had their chief of staff from the same senatorial district. You understand, they must appoint their tribesman as Chief of Staff. His first Chief of Staff, from that first appointment, I think the people of Kogi knew that it is not going to be business as usual that we now have a bridge builder and a unifier. So we talked about the unity of the nation. All the crisis we have is basically because we are not united, we still see ourselves as Igbo, Youruba, Hausa, we have all these sharp divisions, killing one another and all of that. So we need unity. And we need a unifier. Yahaya Bello is a unifier. “The issue of progress, when you have security, and you are united, you will be thinking about progressing the nation. You’ll be thinking about advancing the course of our development as a nation, as a people. And that’s very critical. Are we progressing? Are we moving forward as a nation, we need to interrogate these issues, and then come to a conclusion as a people the kind of government we want in 2003. So as you see, is going to be critical to the determination of who will succeed our great leader, President Muhammadu Buhari.” 