 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO After failing to clinch the governorship ticket of his former party, All Progressives Congress for the July 16 governorship election in Osun State, a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Lasun Yusuff, has been unveiled as the governorship candidate of the Labour Party in the state. Yusuff, who had ditched APC last month, defected to LP in a bid to contest the governorship election against Governor Gboyega Oyetola, candidate of the APC and Senator Ademola Adeleke, who is the flag bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party among other candidates from other minor political parties. While announcing Yusuff as the candidate of LP in Osogbo on Thursday, the National Chairman of the party, Barr. Julius Abure, berated the administration of Rauf Aregbesola for introducing Opon-Imo (Tablet of Knowledge) and single uniform policy, describing it as a failed education policy that history will “not readily forget.” He also described Aregbesola’s administration as one that the Osun people should never pray to have again. Also, LP Publicity Secretary, Comrade Arabambi Abayomi, also flayed Aregbesola for impoverishing workers through payment of half salaries. Abayomi said, “Part of the Civil Service Coalition and many others wrote a petition and even publicly addressed the National Press on the numerous numbers of corrupt practices of one Governor across 2012 to 2015. “In the allegations in some petitions, it was alleged that a sitting Governor received money directly from the Ministry of Finance without due process, giving the preparation of the workers’ salaries in contract to a Lagos Company. They also alleged that the Governor lied publicly about the accrued State revenue of 4 years. “Many of these very heavy allegations were documented by men who are yet living and are Osun State indigenes. In another drama in a press interview, a former yet living APC Finance Commissioner tried so hard but unsuccessfully muddle up the details of two huge loans of the state that is still unpaid. “A ruling government wicked enough to order half salary payments to the workers is a very insensitive government.”