 Former Vice-President, Atiku Abubakar, was reportedly absent at a meeting between Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State with some presidential aspirants of the People’s Democratic Party on Wednesday. The meeting between Wike and other presidential aspirants ahead of the PDP’s primaries, held behind closed-door. It was reportedly targeted at deepening discussions on emergence of a consensus presidential candidate for the party in order to douse tension. Those at the meeting, held in the Government House, Port Harcourt, were the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed; Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, a former Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki; and a former Managing Director of FSB International Bank, Dr. Mohammed Hayatu-Deen. Wike said that the aspirants were interested in promoting the unity of the party ahead of the primaries and the coming general elections. The governor said, “Our interest is the unity of the party. Our interest is to make Nigerians happy by making sure that by 2023, PDP takes over the reins of government because Nigerians are patiently waiting. “I can assure you that we are going to work as a team to make Nigerians happy.” Saraki, who is the leader of the delegation, said that their discussion was aimed at fostering harmony among the presidential aspirants. He said, “We are here to have a discussion and we just finished talking about best way for us to reunite our party and bring unity among all those who are aspiring to lead this country under PDP. “We all realize the importance of this and PDP is the only option ready to redirect this country in the right direction and bring progress and provide a better future for our people. “We have been to some of the other states and today, we are here with Governor of Rivers State, a key stakeholder of this party to discuss frankly. “He has given us his views and made some suggestions and we will continue to work with that as we move away from here. But, the key thing is unity, the key thing is to put the country first and put the party first.” 