 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A socio-political group, Egbe Atunluse Ile-Ijesa on Saturday said it has facilitated creation of another University in Ijesaland. This came a day after the announcement of the upgrade of the Ilesa College of Education to university by the Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola. Speaking at a press conference to herald the Centenary Anniversary of the group and Inauguration of its Committees and Sub-Committees, the acting Chairman of the group, Prof. Adeniyi Olu Obi said the Deeper Life Bible Church of Nigeria has agreed to build a university in the ancient town. Olu Obi, the Chairman of the university project, said, “The Egbe intentionally went to look for Deeper Life Bible Church, on the establishment of the University. The Egbe has no money to found a University. It costs a lot of money to found a University. The former president (of the Egbe) established the committee. And we have made a lot of efforts, even with the immediate past president. He said the group has acquired the land for the tertiary institution adding that, “The State Ministry of Land made the payment with legal backing and all those things. And we were witnesses to it. When it materializes we will all see. This year, we will move there. But we don’t want to be precise.” Also speaking, Professor Yemi Kayode-Adédèjì, a member of the group, added that it has provided Deeper Life Bible Church with land, logistics and other legal documents. “If the church sets up the University, it is their University. But if they want to involve Ẹgbẹ́ Atunluse, we are here. But we didn’t fasttrack or facilitate this so we can take it from them. It is their baby. We provided the land. All the logistics and the legal documents are done. “The church would go from there to set up their University and name it, and run it as they think. However, we have let them know that the interest of the Ijesa must be protected in that University, in terms of things that should benefit us. “The local people must be given priority in employment. And we know that once University is established it would be a catalyst for further developments of this area,” he said. Olu Obi said the group would also discuss ways at ending incessant killings by cultists in the land dying the Centenary celebration. He said, “I also urge us all to be committed to the new evolution of development being championed by various socio-cultural groups. Let’s show love and work for peace and stability in our clime. Unity of our people in all the communities in Ijesaland must be paramount in our minds.  This will bring peace and in a peaceful environment, progress will be enhanced and this will bring development. “We must strive to sustain the enviable position which we had attained several decades ago through hard work and diligence. I am pleading with all the Patriotic Societies in Ijesaland to cooperate with Egbe Atunluse in the process of providing employment for our jobless youths to rid our communities of cultism. This is alien to us in Ijesaland we must therefore educate our young ones on how to live a decent and respectable life devoid of negative tendencies.” 