 The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has been overwhelmed with security challenges, former President Olusegun Obasanjo has said. He spoke at his residence, Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library in Abeokuta, Ogun State while receiving a People’s Democratic Party presidential aspirant, Dr Ugochukwu Williams, and his team. The former president stated this in reaction to the recent terror attacks in Kaduna that left casualties in its trail with 21 passengers missing. Noting that the attacks showed that Nigerians were not safe anywhere, whether on the road, on the train or on aircraft, he said that the country had been drifted into a dicey situation. Obasanjo said that Nigerians “are no longer safe on the road, on the train and at the airport.” According to the elder statesman, there is need for concerted efforts by stakeholders to stem the tide of insecurity in the land. He said that while the Buhari-led government had been overwhelmed, Nigerians must be resolute in their resolve to stay above the current situation. He said, “If anybody comes to say I want to see you, I want to talk to you, I will say ‘you’re welcome.’ This is because I believe very strongly, and I have said it publicly and I will say it again that the situation we are in this country is not a situation where one man will say yes, he has a solution unless we are deceiving ourselves. “I believe we need to sit down collectively and look at the situation. “A situation where you are not safe on the road, you are not safe on the train, you are not safe at the airport, shows a very serious situation. “I believe that all right-thinking Nigerians must know that we have a situation that has overwhelmed the present administration, but we should not allow that situation to overwhelm Nigeria.” The former president wished Williams well in the pursuit of his presidential ambition. Williams, who was in company with the House of Representatives aspirants from Plateau and Imo states, said that he visited Obasanjo for consultation on his presidential ambition. The presidential hopeful, describing Obasanjo as a leader who remained passionate about the peace and unity of Nigeria, said that his reason for aspiring was to rescue Nigeria from the current state. 