 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI A socio-political group, Prayer Network for Good Governance, has urged the Ebonyi State Government to review its tax policy, citing the recently introduced Manifest fees at motor parks in the state in view of the effect on travelers. The group alleged that travelers within and outside the state pay amounts ranging from N100 to N500 depending on the distance they travel. In a statement signed by the state Coordinator of PNGG, Greg Esheya; and its Secretary, Evang. Nwali Ifeoma, the group said that “We applaud state government’s pronouncements after one of its State Executive Council meetings recently as regards resumption of payment of salaries to civil and public civil servants from Effium communities; release of arrears of promotions to civil servants at both the state and local government levels; release of pension arrears to senior citizens of the state, etc. “We task the government to ensure the implementation of these pronouncements to the letter, believing that they were not made to score political points. “It is heart-warming that the government is beginning to wear human face in this direction and we call for its sustenance. “We seizes this medium to call on government to address the economic challenges facing Ebonyians to ask for a review of some of the tax policies especially the recently introduced Manifest fee in motor parks in the state whereby travelers within and outside the state pay amounts ranging from N50 to N500 depending on the distance they travel. “We have observed that these fees are just collected without filling the manifest form itself thereby defeating the aim (for security of travelers). “The introduction of this tax is coming at a time when the pump price of a litre of fuel has gone beyond N200 in Abakaliki town thereby increasing transportation fares. Government is, therefore, charged to monitor the activities of operators of filling stations in the state to ensure that they sell at the official pump price. “Prayer Network for Good Governance shall always applaud government policies and actions that go down well with the common man while calling for a review of the ones that negate the welfare of Ebonyians.” 