 BY JACOB BRIGHT Stakeholders in the education sector have stated that the future was bleak for Nigeria’s beleaguered education sector and urged the federal government to inject more funds into it. Speaking to The Point about issues affecting the education system in Nigeria, they highlighted the government’s insensitivity to the plight of university students who are at home due to the strike action embarked upon by their lecturers, and requested the government to listen and grant the lecturers’ demands. The Nigerian education system comprises three sectors, which include basic education (nine years), post basic/senior secondary education (three years) and tertiary education (four to six years, depending on the course of study), has suffered from a want of funding and other challenges that have brought it to its knees. For instance, the United Nations, in one of its publications, listed Nigeria’s growing population (seventh largest in the world) as a conundrum the education sector and its administrators failed to cope with, and is also the reason why millions of elementary school-aged children do not participate in education at all, making Nigeria the country with the highest number of out-of-school children in the world. Nigeria’s education system also grapples with poor infrastructures, where schools are overcrowded, dilapidated and ill-equipped, and the Boko Haram insurgency in the North which brought its own brand of devastation. Lately, too, kidnapping of students has been added to this frightening list. Recent deaths of students inside school premises through alleged abuse and molestation has also jolted concerned stakeholders. The Sylvester Oromoni of Dowen College and five years old Hanifa Abubakar incidents are still fresh in the memory. In an interview with The Point, the General-Secretary of the Nigerian Union of Teachers, Mike Ike Ene, detailed a horde of problems within the primary and secondary school systems, and equally pleaded with the government to fulfill promises the President made to teachers in 2020 during the celebration of World Teachers’ Day. President Muhammadu Buhari had promised a new salary scale for teachers, and increased the retirement age of teachers from 60 to 65, and years of service from 35 to 40. Today, the legislation that would make the dreams of those teachers come true hasn’t been accented to by the President. Industrial unrest, too, by the various Unions in higher institutions, because of the demand for better funding of education and welfare of their members, haven’t gone unnoticed. For the umpteenth time, the Academic Staff Union of Nigerian Universities has embarked on a strike action that has left Nigeria’s already beleaguered education sector reeling from its effects. Before the latest round of strike action, University lecturers had accused the Federal Government of paying lip service to the funding of tertiary education, and to aggravate an already dire situation, the Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities as well as the Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Universities have also unsheathed their swords, and declared strike actions, which have crippled any remaining semblance of activities in various campuses. There is also a back-and-forth between ASUU and the Federal Government. In February when it extended its four-week “roll-over” strike to eight weeks, the President of ASUU, Emmanuel Osodeke, said that the National Executive Council of ASUU “was disappointed that the government did not treat the matters involved with utmost urgency they deserved during the four-week period as expected of a reasonable, responsive and well-meaning administration.” The Federal Government, however, accused the union of being insincere in its claims for the reasons they embarked on strike. The government said the Universities Transparency Accountability Solution payment platform the lecturers preferred didn’t pass the integrity test conducted by the National Information Technology Development Agency, and the Ministry of Education had set up a committee to look into the renegotiation of the 2009 agreements ASUU entered with the government. Interestingly, ASUU threatened to withdraw the academic certificate of the Director-General of NITDA, Kashifu Inuwa, for his pronouncement about UTAS, and said the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System, recommended by government, was “a conduit pipe for dissipation of resources”. Addressing issues eating deep into the fabric of Nigeria’s education sector, the President of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics, Anderson Ezeibe, said it was because of the misplacement of priorities by political leaders that Nigeria’s education sector was still in the doldrums. According to Ezeibe, no nation could develop beyond its educational development. “It’s simple. It’s just a misplacement of priorities by the political leaders of the nation. It’s not about lack of funds, it’s about prioritisation, because they say you put your money where your mouth is. If you place the right level of priority in education, then you should be able to fund it appropriately with the funds that are available. “It is very unfortunate because no nation can develop beyond its educational development. So, it’s very unfortunate that the political leaders have not seen the development of our education as a sustainable path to the development of the nation,” he said. Ezeibe noted that if the political class had seen the potential of education to advance Nigeria’s development, there would be greater investment in education, and the nation would have been reaping the benefits of education over the years. Asked whether he saw any bright future for Nigeria’s education sector, he answered, “For now, the way it is, I don’t see any. Where’s the bright future going to come from when the sector continues to be underfunded? Already, in the primary sector, public schools are gone. Everything is now private. The secondary education is also the same. Now, it is creeping into tertiary education. “Now, on a more sustained basis, education is being taken away from the public institutions to the private ones, where it is beyond the reach of the generality of the masses. This is a nation where a lot of people are poor, that is, classified as poor by the UN, and you can’t expect them to afford fees charged by private institution owners,” he added. Ezeibe further submitted that the hope of the poor masses getting quality education was dependent on the affordability of public institutions. “As we speak the public institutions are severely starved of funds, leading to a lot of disruptions. Unions, like ours, are always on strike, pressing for better funding. It’s the same for those in the University,” he observed. Shedding more light, he said workers in public schools were poorly motivated. He told our correspondent that poor staff welfare was enough justification to believe that there was no bright future for the education sector in Nigeria. He called on political leaders to have a change of heart and consciously “turn towards education for sustainable development for the nation.” Concerning the planned strike action by polytechnic lecturers, Ezeibe said it was unfortunate that University lecturers were on strike and their polytechnic counterparts would soon be joining them. He declared that any strike action by his union was because the government had taken them for granted. “We called off our strike in June last year, and we just finished our NEC meeting where we issued a one month ultimatum to resume the suspended strike. “We suspended the strike for just a period of three months to allow the government to fulfill the provisions in our unsigned agreements, and they accepted, we all accepted three months. The three months expired on the 10th of September, last year. From September last year, we are now in March, we gave another six months after the expiration of the three months, and within that six months, we’ve been writing letters and meeting with them, and we’ve not had any tangible progress made on some of the items they’ve not implemented,” he explained. Ezeibe narrated that the government was to blame for the entire educational impasse because it refused to do the needful. He said they were going on strike because they asked for the revitalisation of infrastructures which were to be used to teach the students better. “The infrastructure is to be used to teach the students better. It’s to have materials in the laboratory to teach the students with. It’s not to equip my house,” he said. He contended that the students universities and polytechnics were producing were not properly trained to help solve the problems of society. According to Ezeibe, proper training would make them employers of labour, not job seekers. Ezeibe, who is of the Department of Chemistry, Federal Polytechnic, Nekede, Imo State, advised the government to dedicate more funds for the education sector. He berated governments in the last 20 years for failing to make adequate budgetary allocation for education. His words: “Dedicate funds for the education sector. In the past two decades, there has been no government in Nigeria that has dedicated up to 10 percent of the budget to education. “I think the highest we had was seven percent, which is abysmally low for a developing nation. Some other African countries devote more than Nigeria, and yet we have a population of more than 200 million, and a lot of them are active within the youth age range, and so we expect our political leaders to fund education.” He stressed that if education was funded properly, issues bordering on insecurity would be addressed because those who didn’t have any job to do were usually the ones involved in criminal activities. He asserted that funding of education would provide local solutions to our problems and make cutting-edge research activities available in our tertiary institutions, which the society could consume, instead of “us consuming the research outputs and technology transfer from other developed countries and in the process save foreign exchange in the country”. He also empathized with the students, noting that though the strikes were not good for the psyche of students, it was in their interest that lecturers went on strike. He also urged students to go about their protests peacefully. “Of course, the strike is not good for students. Nobody said it was good for them. But then, if I was in their shoes, I would have loved a situation where there would be order and non-destructive means of going about all these. Unfortunately, the government has shown that it is only strikes that will move them to do anything. In his contribution, the President of the Nigeria Civil Service Union, Lawrence Amaechi, in his capacity as a parent, said he wasn’t happy with the problems confronting the education sector, which has kept the gates of tertiary institutions shut. He frowned at the government’s insensitivity to the crisis and stated that those in the helm of affairs had their children registered in foreign institutions, and were not perturbed about the crisis here. “As a parent in this country, I am not happy with the education system of sit-at-home permanently by our students. When you start school, you won’t know when you will graduate. Nobody is happy, and the people at the helm of affairs, their children are schooling outside this country, from Togo to Germany to Cyprus, they’re not feeling what we are feeling. I feel that enough is enough already. They should come to the rescue of our education system. It’s being bastardized,” he said. Amaechi enjoined the government to listen to the lecturers and keep to agreements. He berated the government for failing to keep to previous agreements with the lecturers and was concerned it made it hard for students to enjoy “a seamless tenure of academic programme”. Amaechi compared students in private universities in Nigeria with those in the public ones, and said the private schools were better off because they graduated in record time. He called for an emergency to be declared in the education sector. “Look at the counterparts of our children in private universities, they have graduated, and those who entered with them are still there marking time. It’s not good, it’s not healthy. The government should declare an emergency in the education sector. I am not happy and I know that Nigerian parents are not happy, unless those that have children abroad” he said. When asked why Nigeria had been unable to address the evils plaguing her education sector, his answer was: “the insincerity of our leaders”. He added that Nigeria needs a competent Minister of Education who “knows his onions”. “I don’t think we have a competent Minister of Education that knows his onions and is able to tackle these things (problems) from primary to tertiary education. They’re not sincere because like I told you, their children are not here. They don’t care whether teachers are remunerated or whether their welfare is taken care of,” he stated. About the possibility of light emerging at the end of Nigeria’s education sector, he said it was God they were praying to for that. He was also of the view that a “turn-around” from the top, people who would have the technical know-how about how to transform our education system, people who knew the importance of education, could make it possible for there to be light at the end of the tunnel. Amaechi also posited that “when you train a child, you train a nation”. He disclosed that a visit to public schools would reveal the severity of the rot there, and called for the placing of a premium on education thereby encouraging the government to engage the lecturers and empower them by taking their welfare seriously. Amaechi advised the government to set up a committee that would include the Minister of Labour, Minister of Education, and other “people of integrity” that would dialogue with lecturers and be sincere enough to reject every wrong in the education sector, and also mean well for it. On their part, Nigerian university students have refused to lay low or be the proverbial grass that suffered when two elephants fought. Under the auspices of the National Association of Nigerian Students, they took their displeasure with the strike action and the general state of education in the country, to the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu. However, when the students’ president, Sunday Asefon asked the Minister questions about what the government was doing to resolve the protracted strike action, he allegedly walked out on them. The students thereafter vowed to protest the action of the Minister, and block some major highways. In his assessment, the General-Secretary, Students’ Union Government, Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Ondo state, Adeyefa Tolulope, told The Point that whenever ASUU went on strike, students were always the ones at the receiving end of its implications. According to Adeyefa, social vices increased because students had nothing to do and this in turn contributed to low development in the society. He blamed the government for the strikes, and said, “When ASUU go on strike, we believe that parts of their demands are those that contribute positively to education development in Nigeria.” He urged the Federal Government and ASUU to reach a compromise so that there could be a “permanent end” to the strike. 