… Harps on need for credible elections  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has maintained its call for credible elections in the forthcoming 2023 round of general elections in order to institutionalise democracy in Nigeria. The electoral umpires also counselled the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, not to allow anyone drag him into getting involved in active politicking. This was contained in a keynote address by the INEC Chairman, Prof Mahmoud Yakubu, delivered on his behalf by National Commissioner, Sam Olumekun, on the occasion of the first quarter 2022 meeting of the Forum of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation with Secretaries to State Governments at the State House conference Hall, Abuja. Speaking on a topic: The impact of elections on the bureaucracy in Nigeria as we prepare for another democratic transition elections in 2023, the INEC boss said, “This topic cannot come at a better time than now when our nation is gearing up for another democratic transition in 2023. The INEC which I represent here today requires all Nigerians to support her in this onerous assignment of delivering a free, fair, and credible and crisis free election going by the challenge posed by insecurity in our land today. “It is no longer news to us that the Commission now has a new Electoral Act (Electoral Act 2022) which was recently assented to by the President. The new act is robust and will further strengthen the operations of the Commission in the delivery of its constitutional mandates. Upon the passage of the act, the Commission has rolled out the 2023 General Election time table and program of activities and it has begun to discharge the activities outlined in the document as they unfold. “The political parties primaries are scheduled for 4th April to 3rd June, 2022 and the last quarter of the Continuous Voter Registration will resume on 11th April and close on 30th June, 2022. The Commission has two off-seasons governorship elections in Ekiti and Osun States which will hold on 16th of June and 18th July, 2022 respectively. “In order to deepen the process, the Commission has carried out various innovations and activities including the expansion of voter access to polling units in order to decongest the polling units and make the polling experience seamless. “It has also introduced the use of technologies like; the creation of online portal for Continuous Voter Registrations and the in- person/ physical registrations using the INEC Enrollment Device (IVED), the online registrations/ Accreditation of Election observers, online submission of  Nomination forms and list of Political Party Agents as well as the use of Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) in the accreditation process in order to eliminate identity theft and INEC results viewing portal which allows the uploaded results from the polling units to be monitored real time by Nigerians and other critical stakeholders. “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is saddled with the responsibilities of coordinating the process and activities that will give Nigerians a solid and credible platform to exercise their franchise during the elections within the ambit of law and international acceptable standards.” The INEC boss noted that Nigeria experienced democratic elections in the pre-independence era up to the Republican elections of 1963. The nation adopted the American Presidential system in 1979 which was interrupted by military coups and counter coups, later on since 1999 to date, it is gladdening to note that the nation’s democracy continued to evolve. He further stated that bureaucracy such as a group of specifically non-elected officials within a government or other institution that implements the rules, laws, ideas, and functions of their institution through a system of administration marked by officials, red tape, and proliferation under the democratic experience has continued to be surrounded with so many fundamental historical issues that are unique to Nigeria. He added, “Despite the myriad of challenges enumerated above among others, the impact of democratic elections on the bureaucracy in Nigeria cannot be over-emphasized. The remarkable of democracy in Nigeria since the commencement of this dispensation has influenced a number of remarkable reforms in the nation’s bureaucracy with a view to driving effectively government policies and programmes to grow every sector towards achieving nation-building. “The fact needs be stressed that credible elections engenders effective bureaucracy. Conversely, when elections are fraught with malpractices, the recruitment process of political office holders is negatively impacted. In effect, public office holders may not have what it takes to put in place credible bureaucracy to better the lot of the ruled. “I wish to conclude my remark by sounding this note of advice to all of us seated here today bureaucrats; we must continue to uphold utmost professionalism at all times. This is necessary as political office holders may easily lure you into politics thereby politicizing the bureaucratic set-up and destroy the fabrics of the profession. Political patronage among civil and public servants has the potential to destroy the gains attained over the years.” 