…Only GYB can address it  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The Director General of the Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation and daughter of acclaimed winner of June 12, 1993 Presidential election, Hafsat Abiola-Costello, has lamented that the level of poverty her late father, Chief Moshood Abiola saw that lured him into politics has worsened 39 years after. Abiola-Costello told the media in a world press briefing held on Sunday in Abuja that only Governor Yahaya Bello can address the issue of poverty ravaging the country when elected President. The Director General also noted that the youthful presidential aspirant will unify the crises turn country and give every Nigerian the reason to be proud of the country. “Governor Bello is one out of the numerous politicians vying for the post that has proved he has what it takes to make a change by leading the country out of poverty, uniting the various geopolitical zones and return Nigeria to one nation. “His cabinet as a governor is made up of people from the six geopolitical zones and I believe that is a strong indication that when elected the President, the unity that has eluded the country will be a thing of the past.” She stated that the youthful governor has proved his capability of turning things around with what he has been doing in Kogi State even though there has been misinformation peddled by those afraid of him. The DG revealed that the claims in some quarters that Governor Bello is owing staff salaries is a concoction by those who are afraid of his rising profile moreso when they have seen how acceptable his candidacy has been since he declared. She noted that the APC hopeful met a backlog of unpaid salaries and embarked on a total clean up of the system which took his administration about 24 months. The DG noted further that the system clean up exposed those who were milking the state without working and when the governor found out that the mess was so much, he wanted to retrench those involved but with consultations between him and both the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) and National Union of Local Government Employee (NULGE) to retain them and pay them an agreed percentage of the salary than throwing them into the labour market. “That is the agreement and the governor has not failed on his part. This is where the rumours that he has been paying workers some percentage of their salary. All is lies formulated to rubbish his good work. Since 2018, Governor Bello has not owed any worker. He has not paid any worker less than what is acruable to him or her. “We are talking about a governor that met the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the state at about 300 million naira but took it to over one billion naira. His wisdom in uniting the different tribes in the state has led to the peace and tranquillity the state is enjoying. “Kogi is bordered by about six states and some of their neighbours are crises ridden, insecurity has taken a toll on them but Kogi State is very peaceful. The secret is the performance of the governor.” On the chances of GYB at the APC primaries, Abiola said, “His chances are very bright. The young people have an underground plan to play a very prominent role in the forthcoming elections. He is a representative of the young people. Remember the not too young to run. The country belongs to both the old and experienced politicians as well as the young politicians who are more sophiscated and energetic. That is where Bello belongs. I heard one of the old politicians saying if he wins he will serve for only four years and hand over to young people. My question is why not now, why wait for the next four years?” The DG also revealed that Governor Bello holds the opinion that the country should be restructured to make things work, adding, “That is why he has given the Local Government independence. In Kogi State, the three arms of government enjoy independence, none of them would claim that the governor is usurping its powers. “Are we talking about out of school children. Kogi has only 13 percent out of school children. Compare it with the other states in the north, you will find out that Bello is carrying every segment along because he knows it is all about human beings.” The DG expressed confidence that her candidate will scale through the hurdles of primaries noting that the APC Constitution has not barred any zone of the federation from contesting for the post of Presidency. 