 The chairman of WEMABOD Estates Limited, Architect Owoduni Opayemi, has resigned his membership of one of the nation’s frontline development firms. He is set to declare his intention to become the governor of Ogun State in 2023. His resignation letter, dated March 24, 2022, was addressed to the Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun. It reads: “Dear Sir, RE: RESIGNATION OF APPOINTMENT AS A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ON THE BOARD OF WEMABOD ESTATES LIMITED (WEMABOD LIMITED). I write further to the letter dated August 18, 2020 from Odu’a Investment Company Limited appointing me as a Non-Executive Director of Wemabod Limited (formerly Wemabod Estates Limited) as nominated by the Ogun State Government. Subsequent upon the letter, I took the appointment as a Non-Executive Director and was later appointed as a Chairman of the Board with effect from 2nd November, 2020. I have meritoriously served as a Non-Executive Director of Wemabod Limited for almost one and a half years. However, in a bid of moving further in my political career, I hereby inform you of my decision to resign the appointment as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of Wemabod Limited, with effect from Thursday, 24th March, 2022. I sincerely appreciate His Excellency the Governor, who in the first place found me worthy of the appointment, and express my best wishes to the people and government of Ogun State. Kindly accept the assurance of my best regard.” Opayemi, FNIA, attended prestigious institutions like Remo Secondary School, Sagamu, Eko Boys High School, Mushin, Kings College Lagos, University of Lagos, Florida A & M University, Tallahassee Fl, USA and Lawrence Institute of Technology, Southfield MI, USA. He is an astute businessman who started his Architectural career over 30 years ago as a fresh university graduate. He is a community leader and politician of repute who is close to his home base and well respected at home and abroad for his philanthropic activities and deeds. He has over the years done well in his business concerns which include building construction, procurement, real estate, and engineering. He is a fellow of the Institute of Architects and a registered member of Architect Registration Council of Nigeria and a member of the Institute of Chartered Architects. 