 Sunday Adeyemo a.k.a Sunday Igboho has restated his commitment to the Yoruba Nation struggle, saying that he would be back to the country soon. The Yoruba Nation agitator gave the indication during a dialogue with the leader of the Ilana Omo Oodua, Prof. Banji Akintoye, and his deputy, Prof. Wale Adeniran. Igboho debunked the report that he was down medically in detention. Expressing gratitude to his supporters, he stated that he enjoyed maximum freedom in the Republic of Benin as a result of President Patrice Athanase Talon’s support. According to him, during his seven months of incarceration in the country’s prison, he did not fall sick as being rumoured. Saying that those behind the fake news were uninformed, Igboho said, “I want to thank everyone. I want everyone to be calm. I won’t betray you all. This is me here. I’m fine, hale and healthy. “Yoruba struggle will remain, and it will be stronger. Yorubas are suffering and smiling. They are killing, kidnapping and doing all sorts in Yorubaland and we are not talking. “I’m coming back home soon. I’m a true son of the soil. One cannot be scared of his father’s home. Nothing will happen and no one will be scared of anyone. “All that I’ve asked the Federal Government they are yet to answer, and the court has ruled in my favour. Asides from the judgement in Benin Republic, I’m coming to follow up with my judgement in Nigeria. Federal Government must pay my money. It is N20billion. “When I get back to my base in Ibadan, I will thank everyone specially again. You will see me well. Dear Yorubas, don’t be scared, Igboho is back.” On president Talon’s gesture, he said, “There were so many rumors, and that he (President Talon) collected money from Nigeria’s president, and has betrayed the Yoruba struggle. All were lies. Look at me, do I look like someone who went to Prison? Help me thank the president. I’m very strong, hale and hearty. All my needs were catered for while in prison. “If Nigeria was like Benin Republic, I would have not bothered myself with any struggle. Look at how Benin Republic has developed so well. I’ve been shuffling through Benin since 1996. “For those seven months, there was no blackout and we never ran out of water. I was stunned. Foreigners are trooping into Benin Republic; the government is building infrastructure and the President is investigating the projects. “The people of Benin Republic ought to appreciate God for the kind of leader He has given them. If we have such a government in Nigeria, no one will agitate. Citizens will be happy in a country where the government provides stable power supply, adequate security, and adequate water supply, because that is a good government.” On his release from prison, he said, “The day I was released, I was playing ‘Ayo’ with an inmate, and a police came. He said Chief come, where is your lawyer? He said call your wife and lawyer, your father is around (Baba Akintoye). President has released you. “I was shocked and asked him to show me a document to that effect. It was written in French. It took the efforts of another inmate to interpret it and he told me I had been released. When I called my lawyer, they told me they were on their way and were already aware of my freedom. I thought I was dreaming. “The lawyers stood by me, and they said I should be calm despite the charges that they wanted to investigate against me.” 