 President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with family, friends and associates of Simon Harry, the Statistician-General of the Federation, who passed away Wednesday. The President, in a statement by one of his spokesmen, Femi Adesina, also commiserated with the government and people of Plateau State on the loss of an illustrious citizen, and noted his exemplary contributions to the evolution of the National Bureau of Statistics and developmental planning of the country. President Buhari paid tribute to the late Statistician-General who worked conscientiously with previous heads of the organisation in recent years by providing relevant data to government and making the NBS a point of reference on various issues affecting the country. He affirmed that with his appointment in August, 2021, Harry had ensured that the organisation where he had put in three decades continued to be relevant in taking crucial decisions in the country, urging colleagues in the field of data gathering and analysis, especially at the NBS, to take solace in the fact that having risen to the pinnacle of his career, the late Harry put in his best in the service of the country. He prayed that God will repose his soul and comfort the family in this time of grief. A statement issued on Wednesday in Abuja by the Director of Communication and Public Relations, NBS, Ichedi Joel, said that Harry died in the early hours of Wednesday after a brief illness. Harry was born on March 15, 1965 in Lishin – Jengre in Plateau. He attended L.E.A. Primary School, Tuddai, Kaduna State from 1974 to 1980. Harry then proceeded to Amo Community Secondary School, Katako Jengre, from 1980 to 1985, from where he obtained his first school leaving certificate and the West African Examination Council certificates respectively. The late statistician-general was admitted into the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria (1987 – 1990) and graduated with a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) honours degree in Economics. He, thereafter, earned his Post-Graduate Diploma in Statistics from the University of Ibadan in 1997. Harry later attended the University of Abuja from 2014 to 2017 for his Master of Science degree in Economics and also his Ph.D in Economics. He started his public career in 1992 when he joined the then Federal Office of Statistics and rose through the ranks to become a director before his appointment as the statistician-general of the Federation on August 26, 2021. The deceased was happily married and blessed with children. Harry died seven months after his appointment as statistician- general of the Federation. 