 Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has said that his administration does not owe workers’ salary, calling that anyone being owed should come out openly with a proof. Bello made this known recently while speaking with journalists in Abuja, stressing that workers welfare remained a priority to him. He urged Nigerians to judge him by his performance in Kogi State and not on lies being peddled by some individuals against his person. The governor said that if the allegations against him were true, the state government workers and their unions would have long protested. Bello urged Nigerians to visit the state government’s websites; www.kogipedia.net and www.kogistate.gov.ng to see some of the projects undertaken by his administration for facts on workers’ salaries. “First, let me implore the media to please come up with one state civil servant who would come on air and present his pay slip and bank statement and claim that Kogi State is owing him. “Number two, the various workers have their unions and organisations. The union leaderships are not making noise, who are those that are complaining? “When you continue to mention this issue of salary, I want you to take statistics, empirical facts of various states up till date, how many states have performed above Kogi State in terms of salary payment. “And, I want to assure you that if we are not paying salaries, workers themselves, their unions, would have cried out. ”There are so many lies they are banding out there that you do not know how they emanate. “Let me tell you, I am not a governor for salary. Any other person can pay salaries and all of my officials are paying. “I am here to manage the resources, both human and otherwise, for the benefit of all the citizens of Kogi and the country. And, that is what we are doing, ranging from security, integration, and cooperation amongst our people,” Bello said. He insisted that it was possible to create 20 million millionaires in the country by 2030, explaining that if voted in as president, his administration would adopt the South-Eastern Apprenticeship model which created several millionaires. Bello said that the South-Eastern Apprenticeship model was a homegrown model being studied in Harvard. When applied across all sectors, he said it would achieve the desired goal. “When you talk of issues of empowering 20 million Nigerians by the year 2030, I mean every bit of it. “Mr President is trying to pull 100 million Nigerians out of poverty and I did make reference to our South-Eastern brothers’ apprenticeship whereby either any child from indigent or affluence persons learn how to trade under their masters maximum within five years,” he said. According to him, when they secure their freedom, they are settled with either N500,000 or N1,000,000. “Give that particular apprentice that just graduated another two years maximum, that person is swimming in millions. “This is a model that is being studied by Harvard. Why can’t we in this country develop this our homegrown solutions to our problems? “We can do that in that aspect, we can do it in agriculture. Mr President has released a lot of funds into agriculture.” On security, he said, “I can assure you that in Kogi State today, we are having peace and security and togetherness because we have demonstrated and empowered our youths beyond your imagination.” On April 2, Bello officially declared to run for president under the All Progressives Congress with a pledge to restore hope to Nigerians. (NAN). 