 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI A building site labourer, Ezeh Ogbonna, native of Ndieze Enyim in Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, has reportedly bitten off the lower lip of a fellow labourer after taking a hard substance, crystal methamphetamine, popularly known in local parlance as ‘mkpurummiri.’ Ogbonna was said to have bitten off the lip of Obinna Nwankwegu under the influence of the drug while they were at a site at Enugu Agidi in Anambra State. According to Obinna who revealed that he also took the hard substance, they were both sleeping after the day’s work last week when the suspect, who is now at large, descended on him and bit off his lip. Obinna claimed that the suspect forcefully sucked his blood while he put on a stiff resistance. The victim, who is currently receiving treatment at the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki, lamented that he was brought back to Ebonyi as he could not stay to work in Enugu Agidi as a result of his condition. While narrating his ordeal, Obinna said that Ogbonna suddenly woke up at midnight, pounced on him, screaming that he wanted to suck blood. He added that efforts to stop the man from biting him and sucking his blood failed as he (Ogbonna) overpowered him. In an interview with The Point, the victim, who pleaded for financial support in order for him to have full treatment, vowed never to take any hard substance any longer. He said, “It was my brother that bit me (showing his injured lip). At night when we were sleeping, he got up and screamed. Before I knew what was happening, he started biting me on the lip and fingers. He held my neck telling me to allow him suck my blood. “I struggled and reminded him that it was me and that he should leave me but my efforts were to no avail. “What happened was that he bought mkpurummiri; I took mkpurummiri myself but not as much as he did. I saw Ogbonna as my brother since we are both from Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. We both went for work at Enugu Agidi in Anambra State. While we were sleeping after the day’s job at a building site, he did this (bit off my lip) to me and ran away. “As a result of the injuries, I abandoned my work at the building site and came back to Ebonyi State to treat myself.” 