 Some aggrieved members of a faction of the All Progressives Congress in Kwara State have defected to the Social Democratic Party. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the defectors are loyalists of Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture; and Senator Gbemisola Saraki, Minister of State for Transportation, among others. Rasak Alabi, the Kwara South Senatorial Chairman of the factional APC group, announced their defection to the SDP, on Saturday, in Ilorin at a news conference attended by members from the 16 local government council areas of the state. He said, “Consequent upon the wishes of our numerous supporters and the majority of Kwarans, we announce to you today the official defection and mass movement of supporters and party members from the APC to the Social Democratic Party. “Seated here with us are the 193 ward chairmen, 16 local governments chairmen and all the working committee members who have jointly decided with our numerous supporters to announce to you today our defection to the SDP. “In the past few months, Kwarans have become agitated about our continued stay in the party. This, indeed, is the beauty of democracy. Politics is a noble undertaking and a vehicle to serve the interest of the public and improve their lives. “The delay in our response has been a product of rather long and far-reaching consultations and dialogue with the majority of our leaders, elders and supporters across the state. “Gentlemen, if the national leadership of the party does not believe that we are politically relevant in the state, we need to make them understand also that the man they queued behind is also a blown-out fuse not capable of leading the party to any victory in the state come 2023. “This is a man that got to power through our collective efforts and the support of Kwarans.” The SDP National Publicity Secretary, Rufus Aujenigba, describing Kwara as his second home, expressed joy on receiving the defectors. He assured them that SDP would treat them fairly as bonafide members. Describing the party as best alternative, he stressed that the defectors would be allowed to actualise their political dreams. (NAN). 