… GYB, supporter of women, youth — Onyinye … He gives women relevance — SSG  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) National Women Leader, Dr. Betta Edu, has charged the leadership and members of Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, Hope 23 women wing, to embark on door to door campaign to encourage women to register and have their permanent voter card (PVC) as voter registration is ongoing. Edu revealed that the party hierarchy led by President Muhammadu Buhari with the support of the National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, will come together to decide on who will be it’s candidate for the 2023 Presidential election. She noted that all the Party’s presidential aspirants are high and far above board as a result they are good and eminently qualified for the position. “There is one very beautiful thing I love about APC. The aspirants that are coming out for the presidential tickets in APC are not in any way average. They are high above and are far above board. I have not seen one that is not good. “Now as a party, our party will come together under the leadership of the President, Muhamadu Buhari and of course the national chairman and other leadership structures of our party to decide on whom will be the candidates of our dear party. “Before that decision is made, something requires time that we must do immediately. If indeed you are supporting a candidate in APC, you are supporting Governor Yahaya Bello, you must go out now and begin the door to door mobilisation for registration. Go door to door and begin the campaign for voter registration. “The APC women’s wing will be coming out, will be going to states to mobilise women to go and register. If they don’t have their voters card our work is useless even if they give any of our aspirants the tickets it will not amount to (victory). So we must take our time now door door.” While commending Governor Yahaya Bello for giving women the opportunity to excel in his administration, the National Women Leader said the APC will not give its presidential ticket to an aspirant who will not favour women. “But one thing is certain APC will not give its ticket to a presidential candidate who will not favour women. We know our President and all the glass ceilings he has broken. You know our party chairman and all the glass ceilings he has broken for women; giving us free forms. “Please we want to speak through our SSG to encourage our governor, I will also reach out to him as I’m doing to every other governor, let us have female representatives at the National Assembly. Not just one, two, at least three. He has already started well so he should reach the final bus stop. For the House of Assembly we want to appeal for at least six women. “You can hear her (SSG), working with her Governor, she was able to ensure that women were made Directors-General, heads of parastatals and they made a difference. We want to thank you all for your support to the governor. He is a great man. “Let us pray for our leaders. Let’s pray for our country. Let’s pray that the best leader will emerge victorious in our next convention. That’s where we can go with our full shoulders to the polls,” she said Speaking on their mission to the Buhari House National Secretariat of the party in Abuja, Zara Gift Onyinye, Director, Women Mobilisation, Hope 23, Yahaya Bello Campaign Organisation said,
“We are here to first congratulate our woman leader for her new office and also to solicit for support for our candidates who is also an APC aspirant in the coming presidential race. Of course the chances are huge. “They’re just like we’ve been saying and we’ve enumerated earlier on, a candidate who supports a woman will definitely stand the chance of winning this election because women form the highest number of voters across Nigeria and they also know that if they support that person, that person who has shown that he has the women at his heart, he has love for women, he creates enabling environment for women, he gave them that opportunity to excel and that person is Yahaya Bello and all the women have shown that he has indicated interest as the person who supported them, that same person they’re going to support and so that stands him out of all the aspirants going for this election. “The other one is the love for the youth. Yahaya Bello is a youth, as we all know, and if you check all his appointees in Kogi state, I can say that 95% of them are all youth of Nigeria, and I know they will support him.” Earlier, the Secretary to State Government, Kogi State, Dr. Ayoade Folashade Arike had congratulated the national women leader on her election and pledged the support of all the women in the Yahaya Bello support group. “We are here to say congratulations on your new office and also to assure you that you have the support of all the women in the Yahaya Bello support group. I need to just let you know of the fact that Yahaya Bello loves women, he  gives us a place of honour. In Kogi state as we stand from 2016 to date, I have been the SSG a woman. Not just that, the head of service has been a woman. We have a pioneer pension commission, His Excellency say let me put a woman, DG. “All the 21 local government areas vice chairman are women. We have six institutions, three of them (leaders) are women. I need to let you know that His Excellency loves to put women in places of honour. He likes to give us relevance.” 