 BY AKINWALE ABOLUWADE, IBADAN To ensure smooth running of its operations, the management of Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company Plc. has urged its customers not to molest or attack any of its staff in line of duties especially during the Easter period. The company gave the urge while felicitating with Christians on the celebration, saying that members of the public should imbibe Godly values of righteousness, peace and justice. John Ayodele, Chief Operating Officer of IBEDC, in a statement made available to The Point, assured customers across its network of quality service delivery during the Easter break. The statement read that “We recognize the fact that the demand for electricity always increases during the festive season. We have, therefore, positioned our technical crew to ensure that the allocation we get from the national grid is equitably distributed, and that faults are cleared as fast as possible so our customers enjoy an energy hitch-free holiday.” It indicated that IBEDC had provided multiple channels and customer care centres through which they could seek redress. It. therefore, advised customers to ensure that their homes and business premises were properly wired and earthed only by licensed technicians to ensure safety of lives and property. “It is illegal and dangerous for anyone to trade, live or work near electricity installations or even tamper with them. Motorists are also admonished to avoid driving under the influence of alcohol and observe traffic rules to prevent collision with electric poles and other accidents,’’ it read. In addition, it encouraged customers to take advantage of its hassle free channels of payment such as Quick teller, etransact, Payarena, Jumia, Watu, Buypower and ATM to pay bills and vend in order to avoid disconnection during the holiday period, stating that “Our offices will also remain opened during the public holidays from 9am-3pm; you can also call our customer care line-0700123999 or email us at customercare@ibedc.com’’ 