 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI Anulika Uguru, mother-of-six, in what appears like a replay of the plight of Osinachi Nwachulwu, the popular gospel singer who reportedly lost her life in an abusive marriage recently, has also been confirmed dead. The death of Uguru, a native of Ndiechi Onuebonyi Igbeagu, who got married to a commercial driver, Sunday Uguru, from Ekeru Inyimagu community in Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, was reported recently following an allegation of battering. The Chairman of Human Rights Defender in Ebonyi State, Sampson Okonweke, said that the woman died on the 26th of April. Okonweke stated that he was waiting for the woman in his office to commence the process of summoning the husband for questioning when he caught wind of the incident. It was learnt that the estranged husband, who was alleged of being responsible for the woman’s death, is currently being investigated by the police. Okonweke said that “This woman lying dead here is Mrs Anulika Uguru, mother of six boys. She is from Ndiechi Onuebonyi Igbeagu, married to Mr Sunday Uguru (a.k.a Starger) of Ekeru Inyimagu community, all in Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. “A week ago, just on the 19th of April, 2022, this woman brought a complaint to our office against her husband over incessant cases of battery and other instances of domestic violations. Regrettably, there was this delay in serving the husband an invitation notice because according to the wife, he is an inter-state transporter with no valid phone number. “Yesterday, 25th April, 2022, I spoke with the woman on phone and asked her to come to my office today (26th April) by 12noon. As I waited till 12:30pm today without seeing her, I dialed her number but was picked up, presumably her child. The child handed the phone to another woman who told me that the owner of the phone is dead. She directed us to one village clinic at Sharon junction where I saw the motionless body of Mrs Anulika. We went in company with a member of GBV Taskforce in Ebonyi State, Matthias Okinya. “The sight of the dead woman filled my heart with uncontrollable rage and resentment. I phoned the police immediately and a detachment of security men came, but the husband was no where to be found. We launch a serious search for him with the assistance of concerned villagers and later got him apprehended. He is currently in police detention. He claims Anulika drank some herbicide but does not know who gave it to her. “He must explain what happened to this beautiful young woman cut in her prime. She spoke with me yesterday; she spoke with her son around 9am today and died before 1pm. Mrs Anulika must get justice.” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Odah Loveth, however, said that the matter had yet to reach her office. 