 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The Lagos State Government has appointed the sacked state chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Musiliu Akinsanya popularly called MC Oluomo as the chairman of the newly formed Parks Management Committee. The state commissioner for information and strategy, Gbenga Omotosho disclosed this on Wednesday in a press statement titled, “Lagos Govt. sets up Parks Management Committee.” According to the statement, a former Assistant Inspector General of Police, Hakeem Odumosu was appointed as the Liaison Officer between the government and the committee, while a former Permanent Secretary Dr. Taiwo Salaam was appointed secretary of the committee and Sulyman Ojora was appointed the committee’s Deputy Chairman. Recall that the state government had last month denied that it was planning to appoint MC Oluomo as the chairman of the committee after it suspended the activities of NURTW in all parks and garages in the state resulting from Oluomo’s suspension by the national body. The statement read, “The Lagos State Government has set up a committee to oversee the affairs of all motor parks and garages in the state. “This is in fulfillment of the Government’s promise to ensure that events in the National Union of Road Transport Workers are not allowed to threaten law and order. “The Government has, therefore, exercised its constitutional powers to ensure that no vacuum, which can disrupt the peace of our dear state,is allowed to exist in the parks. This is a duty we owe all Lagosians and visitors. “Members of the committee, who have been selected following consultations with stakeholders in the sector, are: 1.Mr. Hakeem Odumosu (AIG Rtd) – Government Liaison Officer
2. Alh Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya – Chairman
3. Alh Sulyman B. Ojora – (Deputy Chairman )
4. Dr. Taiwo Olufemi Salaam (Secretary)
5. Comrade Olayiwola Lemboye
6. Alh Mustapha Adekunle
7. Alh Ganiyu Shittu
8. Alh Mukaila Runsewe
9. Alh Sulyman Yusuf
10. Alh Mufutau Mutiu
11. Alh Yinka Hassan
12. Alh Sunday Ogunleye
13. Alh Moshood Omojowa
14. Alh Ismaila Aigoro
15. Alh Ibrahim Yusuf. O
16. Alh Akeem Tijani
17. Mrs Omolabake Adelakun
18. Comrade Kazeem Hassan
19. Alh Wasiu Amole
20. Alh Ganiyu Ayinde
21. Anthony Adeyinka Adeboye
22. John Victor Owolabi
23. Saburi Salami
24. Ibrahim Onitiju
25. Odusanya Gbenga “Members of the committee are to report to the Ministry of Transportation, Alausa Secretariat, Ikeja. “The Government on March 10 suspended NURTW operations in all parks and garages, following the tension sparked by some events in the union.” 