 The All Progressive Grand Alliance faction, led by Edozie Njoku, has announced the dissolution of the State Working Committee of the party in Kwara, Kogi, Lagos, Oyo, Delta, Anambra, Imo, Enugu, Abia and Ebonyi states. Okoro Benedict, the National Administrative Secretary of the party, said in Abuja on Friday that the dissolution of the working committees of the 10 affected states was part of the reconciliatory efforts of the party led by Njoku. He stated that the decision was arrived at after the National Working Committee meeting attended by the party’s stakeholders. “Following from the Supreme Court and Federal High Court judgments, the NWC met and deliberated on a wide range of issues, particularly the recent judicial pronouncements on the party, and resolved as follows: “That the NWC pass a vote of confidence on the National Chairman, Chief Edozie Njoku, especially his conciliatory leadership style. “That the NWC calls on INEC to expeditiously recognize the executives that emerged from the Owerri Convention of May 31, 2019, which produced Chief Edozie Njoku as APGA National Chairman. “That for the need for peace and genuine reconciliation, the party executives of the following states stand dissolved: – Kwara, Kogi, Lagos, Oyo, Delta, Anambra, Imo, Enugu, Abia and Ebonyi. “That an Adhoc Committee is hereby set up to formulate strategies to ensure that APGA sweeps the 2023 general elections across the federation. “That all APGA members are hereby enjoined to seize the opportunity of the ongoing INEC Continuous Voter Registration exercise to register and get their Permanent Voter Card,” a communique issued at the end of the NWC read. The document was signed by Alhaji Adamu Danjuma Musa, Deputy National Chairman North; Freedom Okwuchukwu, Deputy National Chairman South; Muyideen Imam, National Secretary; Hamman Buba Ghide; National Legal Adviser and Alhaji Mustapha Rabiu, National Welfare Officer. Others are Tony Uche Ezekwelu, National Vice Chairman, South-East; Camaru Lateef Ogidan, National Vice Chairman, South-West; Chief Jonathan Osigho, National Vice Chairman South-South; Leonard Auta, National Vice Chairman, North-Central; Chuks Nwoga, National Youth Leader; and Okoro Chinedum Benedict, National Administrative Secretary. 