 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL Kogi State governor, Yahya Bello has vowed that if his party approves and if he wins the presidential ticket for the All Progressives Congress for the 2023 elections, he will pick a first female running mate. Gov. Bello stated this on Saturday in Abuja at the “Second Annual GYB Seminar for Nigeria’s Political and Crime Correspondents” while fielding questions from journalists. Determined to replicate what he has done in Kogi, Bello expressed his resolve to run an inclusive government comprising of women, youths and Persons With Disabilities, adding that no one will be excluded. Bello said, “If given the opportunity, if my political party will give me the opportunity and free hand to choose who will run with me, come 2023, surely I will not leave the constituency of my mother, which is women. “I assure you that if I am given that opportunity, I will wish to have the first female vice president from 2023,” he said. Noting that his government in Kogi has raised 2,000 millionaires, he promised to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. “In my presidential declaration speech, I promised that I would build on what Mr President promised of ensuring that nothing less than 100 million Nigerians are pulled out of poverty by the year 2030. “The question will be, ‘what have you done in Kogi State, how many millionaires have you made?’ “I will tell you that within the limit of our resources, coupled with various challenges and demands on our resources we have been able to make nothing less than 2,000 millionaires in Kogi State, within this short period,” he stated. He also expressed confidence that he will win the party’s ticket regardless of the mode of primary the party adopts to select the presidential flag bearer. “The party knows the body language of the nation. APC knows the clamour for a young President who will build on the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Forget about zoning or no zoning; it is about who is a leader and will put the party together. “The party knows who will turn the fortunes of this country around. If consensus is going to be the option, so be it. Whether it’s direct or indirect primary, Yahaya Bello is the man to beat.” 