 BY AKINWALE ABOLUWADE Ismaila Abubakar, Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, has warned that any civil servants found culpable of underhand dealings in contract procurement, apart from getting dismissed, may also get jailed without an option of fine. In the same vein, the Director of Procurement in the Ministry, Oke James Olusegun, said that those involved in the procurement process must discharge their responsibilities according to the nation’s procurement law. The two principal officers spoke on Wednesday during a workshop organised by the Ministry for the Procurement Planning Committee and Evaluation Committee members held at the Afolabi Hall, Federal Secretariat, Abuja. Present at the one day workshop were the keynote speaker on the occasion, Isaiah Yesufu; Jimoh A. F., Director, Human Resources Management; Dr. Paul Onyeudo, Director, Sports Medicine; Momoh I. Olugbenga, Director, Enterprise Development and Promotion; Raji I. Ogunsola, Director, General Services; Nelson Peter, Director, National Sports Festival and Para Sports; Ede Ogaba, Director, Education and Youth Development; M. D. Manga, Director, Press; Akinlonu Folusho, Director, Legal Services; Omotesho Olubunmi, Rep. Director, Finance and Accounts; A. M. Dauran, Director, Network and Social Mobilization; and Fadeke Fadeyibi, Head, Anti-Doping. Yesufu, in his paper titled, ‘Preparation of Terms of Reference, Scope of Work for Request for Proposal and Bill/Specification for Goods,’ highlighted the procedures and standards of engagement. Another speaker, Isaac Shina Mokuola, dwelt on ‘Preparation of Plan and Evaluation.’ The Permanent Secretary said, “In the Civil Service, all offences committed are attached with proportionate punishments ranging from verbal warning to dismissal from Service. “It may interest you to note that any offence committed in the course of Public Procurement Process is punishable by imprisonment without even option of fine. You will, therefore, see why we have to pay attention to all rules and regulations governing public procurement process.” In his address, Oke stressed that in the Public Procurement Act (2007), “the Procurement Planning Committee and Evaluation Committee are critical points with vital roles in the Public Procurement Process. There may be need for us to note that the primary objective of Public Procurement is to deliver works, goods and services necessary to accomplish government missions in a timely, economically and efficient manner. “To achieve these three goals, all the staff (both Procurement and Non-procurement) that are involved in the procurement process, need to understand and carry out their responsibilities according to the relevant laws and regulations governing procurement in Nigeria.” Oke stated that in his 18 months working experience in the Ministry, he realized that there is “the inadequacy of procurement staff, as well as low capacity of non-procurement staff in the understanding of laws and regulations governing procurement process as provided in the Public Procurement Act (2007) and Financial Regulations. “With the support of my Principals, Accounts and Audit Staff, we have been able to educate and change the orientation of some of these non-procurement staff. This was achieved through dialogue and personal interactions. “However, the above scenario is not a sustainable one. Therefore, I believe there is need to build the system rather than personal interaction. It is on this note that I sought the support and approval of the Permanent Secretary to organize this one-day workshop for some of the non-procurement staff that have critical roles to play in the procurement process. “Due to the fact that fund was not appropriated for this assignment, the scope and numbers of participants at this workshop is limited. I will like to suggest that the Director (Human Resources Management) should please give training on Procurement process (for all staff) priorities in the general training of the Ministry. “With that, apart from strengthening the system, it will also advance the upliftment of individual staff as we progress in our career within the Civil Service System.” 