 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A Nigerian youth, (names withheld), has narrated how he spent over 10 years at the Kirikiri Medium Correctional Centre, Lagos State, awaiting trial for attempted stealing. The young man, while addressing inmates at the Ilesa Correctional Centre, Osun State, urged them not to give up on life, saying that if he could be released from jail after awaiting trial for over 10 years to toe a better path in life, help could also come their way as well. He said that a Non-Governmental Organisation, Anchor Heritage Initiative, visited the prison to render legal aid, leading to his eventual discharge and acquittal by a Magistrate Court sitting in Lagos State barely four months ago. Narrating how he met his ordeal, he said that things were difficult for him, so he decided to rob a shop in order to steal money. Unluckily for him, the owner of the shop caught him in the act and raised the alarm. The young man said, “I would have been mobbed but thanks to God, the woman (owner of the shop) reported the matter to the police and I was arrested. I was charged to court and was remanded. Before I knew it, for the mistake that took me five minutes, I spent over 10 years to bear the consequence. “I want to urge you not to give up on your current situation. I was once an inmate at the Kirikiri Medium Prison and I was there for over 10 years because I decided to steal some money. So, if I tell you that I know what you are going through, I want you to believe me. “Immediately I was caught, I screamed, Jesus but the woman told me that He wouldn’t save me. As I said, my life would have been wasted because I was almost mobbed but the woman decided to take me to the police station. “You can see how the mistake of five minutes made me suffer for over 10 years. I thank God for the second chance that I have. I was able to make positive use of my stay in the prison by learning how to operate piano, play saxophone, and I also learnt painting through a programme initiated by Anchor Heritage. “I want you to be reformed in this place (Ilesa Correctional Centre) because it will be counter-productive for you to leave the prison and remain the same. I am now a photographer, and as you can see, my story has changed for the better. Again I tell you, don’t give up.” Meanwhile, the about 800 inmates of the centre were full of excitement when Anchor Heritage Initiative donated food items to them in celebration of the New Year. The inmates sang and danced in appreciation of the philanthropic gesture. The Director of Operations of the initiative, Bidemi Oladipupo, said that the gesture was for the inmates not to feel neglected. “We are here to celebrate the festive season with the inmates. It’s a new year and we don’t want them to feel completely neglected. So, we came to share the love of Anchor Heritage Initiative and the love of the season. Every inmate was given semovita and garri for the season. We came with a message of love, wishing them a happy New Year and to say that when there is life, there is hope. “We are happy that we are able to share these items directly to the inmates. We have close to 800 inmates and we are happy that everyone got an expression of that love. We were here sometime to paint the walls of the Ilesa Correctional Centre and the painting was done by inmates and before the end of the year, more programmes would be carried out at the centre,” Oladipupo noted. The officer-in-charge of the centre, DCC Johnbull Sauje, commended the NGO for the visit and donation of the items, saying that the gesture would go a long way in motivating the inmates to turn a new leaf. 