Vows not to step down for millions of dollars  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Ekiti State governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Demola Popoola, has promised to attract multi-million dollars investment if elected governor in the forthcoming election. Popoola made the promise on Wednesday at the Buhari House national secretariat of the party in Abuja when he came to return his nomination form. He said, “Ekiti is known to be a state of knowledge, intellectuals. My coming to take up the job after Governor John Kayode was born out of passion for my State viz-a-viz what I studied. For example, Ekiti State has a lot of potentials which as I’m talking to you are untapped and those potentials are what I will look into. If it is in the area of industry, I intend to build industries and am already in contact with foreign financial gurus and businessmen who have signified intention to come and support Ekiti State. “In the area of agriculture, they are planning to invest $2.1 billion as soon as I take up the reigns of the state because they believe their investment will be secured. Not that they are not secured under Governor Kayode but you know it is a relation of a thing. They intend to do roads in all the nooks and crannies of Ekiti State in order to allow agricultural produce to come into the city. “They also intend to build warehouses and mechanize the factories so that farmers can keep their storage in the warehouse while they will buy the product from them and this money is not a loan. It is an investment. The life of the people will be better. My current governor has done a lot of agriculture but I intend to improve in the area of agriculture.” He promised to rescue the state from unemployment that is facing it and some of the states and affirmed that he will set up some cottage industries. “Ekiti State has gold. We can set up cottage industries where they can work on the gold deposits and let the Chinese pay us and in the process, our revenue will go up. We intend to block the loopholes where our revenue is leaking. “In terms of education, no doubt, Ekiti is number one. I am working with my people; I think it will be a good thing if Ekiti can give free education. How do we do it? Increase revenue and give back to our people. “In the area of health, we are already talking to some Germans and some Nigerians who are going to build a medical centre, one of the biggest. Look at Afe Babalola University; it is one of the best hospitals in Nigeria. So, we are looking at building a medical centre where most people can get good health attention. We are also trying to introduce free medical service for the elderly. “However, because I am an aviator, in area of transportation, there is an existing construction going on at the airport. I am the Chairman of the Aviation Cleaners in Nigeria. I manage all the Airports, outside of the Airports in Nigeria and it is an area where I understand very well. We will try and finish our Cargo Airport so that our investors can find it easy taking their products and giving us money. I have to improve on the existing roads so that Ekiti roads are motor able.” He also said the most important thing is electricity and added that he is seriously working with some people on IPP on how he can give the good people of the state at least a minimum of 22 hours supply of electricity daily. Popoola disclosed that he started the race to occupy the Ekiti State government house exactly 11 and have months ago saying, “No aspirant has ever done that. If am going to be anointed candidate of the Governor, I wouldn’t have started my campaign 11 and half months ago. I was almost six months in my campaign before I informed His Excellency Dr. John Kayode Fayemi and His Excellency, Niyi Adebayo, of my intention and they told me you are more than qualified to be the Governor of Ekiti State go ahead and begin your work and since then I have never stopped. I am nobody’s anointed candidate but I am someone’s candidate; the ALMIGHTY GOD! He is the one that anointed me and so I will be next Governor of Ekiti State by the grace of God.” On the type of Primaries to elect the candidates, Popoola said, “That is not within my power. The party has not communicated it to us the aspirants which mode of primaries it will be using for the election. Whether direct or indirect, I am ready. By the grace of God I am the leading contestant in Ekiti State. You can go and confirm it. So we are not afraid of anything. All I am saying, when I was addressing the chairman, the party should please allow free and fair elections, protect our votes. They should not allow the thugs to come and hijack our votes. My people are ready to go out and vote their minds; they are not ready to sell their conscience. That is the truth. “Otumba Niyi Adebayo and some others, Governor Kayode has not called me once to tell me Demola step down. Never! All he tells me is, ‘all I want is who will win the election for APC in Ekiti. I am not going to stop anybody. So the story of anointed, he has refuted so let us take it that way. So I am not anybody’s anointed and I will not step down for anybody. Not for $200 billion,” he said. 