 Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom, has lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for labelling bandits as terrorists in Nigeria. The governor, however, urged the Federal Government to also label Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria and the Fulani Nationality Movement as terrorists. Ortom, in a statement issued on Thursday in Makurdi by his Chief Press Secretary, Nathaniel Ikyur, spoke in reaction to the recent interview which President Muhammadu Buhari granted Channels Television. Ortom was quoted as saying that the decision by the Federal Government would go a long way in containing the atrocities of criminal elements and give the citizens the opportunities to go about their legitimate businesses unmolested. The statement reads in parts “Even though the Federal Government’s  measures on bandits now seems strong, the security challenges will only be adequately addressed if similar hard position is taken on Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, MACBAN and the Fulani Nationality Movement who have vowed and continued to cause mayhem in Benue State and other parts of the country because of the anti-open grazing laws. “For us in Benue State, the law has come to stay. It is irrevocable. In fact, we have maintained our position that Benue State has no grazing routes, reserves or areas whatsoever. Our law was enacted in good faith for peace and order in the state. It was done, among other things, to end the incessant farmers/herdsmen clashes in the state.” It also tasked the President to revamp the ailing economy and save citizens from poverty, stressing that “Nigerians have absorbed enough hunger and misery in the hands of the All Progressives Congress. Or is it possible that Mr. President is not aware that Nigerians are dying from his misrule.” The statement dismissed the president’s tagging of the PDP as a failure, saying, “As a critical stakeholder of the PDP, this is  completely false. If anyone has failed, it is the Buhari-led APC Federal Government that has failed by taking Nigeria from top to bottom. “The PDP is ready to rescue Nigeria from the insecurity and economic horror placed on Nigerians by the APC. The party is better prepared with laudable programmes on the welfare of Nigerians and to rebuild the nation from the APC tale of woes.” 