 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A Federal High Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State has sentenced five internet fraudsters popularly known as Yahoo Boys to a total of 40 months imprisonment for fleecing many people. They were ordered to return a total sum of $2090 and £450 to their victims. The five convicts who had been prosecuted by the Ibadan Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, are Ahmed Oguneye Abiona, Owoade Kehinde Elijah, Oriade Sunday Oluwatobiloba, Usman Adams Shehu, and Waris Adegoke Adeyemo. Justice Nathaniel Ayo-Emmanuel of the Federal High Court in Osogbo convicted them on one count-charge of fraud after they entered into guilty plea. According to Wilson Uwujaren, the Head, Media & Publicity of EFCC, the anti-graft agency secured the conviction of the internet fraudsters on charges bordering on fraudulent impersonation on Wednesday. The sixth person, David Fatunla Taiwo (aka Jeff Wood), was prosecuted before Justice Babs Kuewunmi of the Federal High Court, Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State and also convicted after pleading guilty to thesame count. Abiona, Adeyemo and Shehu bagged four months each, Owoade three months, while Oriade was sentenced to five months imprisonment. Taiwo was slammed with twenty months imprisonment. The court also ordered the defendants to restitute their victims while some of their belongings and money were ordered to be forfeited to the Federal Government of Nigeria.. Oriade is to restitute his victim the sum of $590USD (Five Hundred and Ninety United States Dollars). He was equally ordered to forfeit an iPhone XR, one Samsung S5 mobile phone and one Acer Laptop to the Federal Government of Nigeria. Ahmed is to restitute to one Michael Johnson the sum of $500USD (Five Hundred United States Dollars) and further forfeit the sum of Three Million, Thirteen Thousand, Seven Naira, Thirty-nine kobo (N3, 013,007.39) found in his United Bank of Africa Account, an iPhone 11 Pro Max mobile phone and one Toyota Camry car to the Federal Government of Nigeria, being proceeds of his crime. Adeyemo was ordered to return the sum of $300USD (Three Hundred United States Dollars) to one Peter Decker and forfeit one iPhone 11 Pro Max to Federal Government of Nigeria. Shehu is to restitute his victim the sum of $400USD (Four Hundred United States Dollars) and forfeit one Samsung Galaxy S8 to Federal Government of Nigeria. Owoade was ordered to restitute his victim the sum of $300USD (Three Hundred United States Dollars) and forfeit an iPhone 6 mobile phone to Federal Government of Nigeria. Taiwo was ordered to restitute his victim, one Joanne K. Thornhill, the sum of £450 (Four and Hundred and Fifty Pounds) through the Federal government of Nigeria.     