 BY BAMIDELE FAMOOFO BUA Foods Plc, one of Nigeria’s leading conglomerates, said it is set to increase its foreign exchange earnings capacity with its eyes on export opportunities. It disclosed that it is strategically locating its plants across the country to achieve the goal. The Food Company which recently had its shares listed on the floor of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited, made this known on Tuesday while presenting the Fact Behind its Listing at The Exchange. Chairman, BUA Group Plc, Abdul Samad Rabiu, CON, represented by Group Executive Director, BUA Foods Plc, Alhaji Kabiru Rabiu stated, “Today for us is very historic and we are excited to begin the year with the listing. The population of Nigeria is over 200million and our food production capacity is still not enough to meet current demands. However, with the listing of our food business on the NGX, there is high hope for Nigeria in terms of building capacity for food sufficiency. We are, therefore, positioning our brand to take advantage of export opportunities through our strategically located plants from which foreign exchange can be generated both for the company and economy. As a listed company, BUA Group has benefitted first-hand from NGX’s efforts to chart a path for the sustainable development of the Nigerian economy. It has, therefore, been exciting for BUA Foods to go through a similar journey and we are confident that by leveraging the collaborative approach prevalent in the market, the entire Group of companies will be equipped to increasingly deliver value to its shareholders/ We certainly look forward to benefitting from the new opportunities that have opened up to as on the platform of The Exchange”. Also speaking at the event, Chief Executive Officer, NGX, Mr. Temi Popoola, commended BUA Foods Plc for taking the bold step to join its subsidiary company, BUA Cement, as a publicly listed company on The Exchange. He further stated, “The listing of BUA Foods Plc on The Exchange reaffirms the confidence that leading Nigerian corporates have in NGX as the partner of choice for raising capital and enabling sustainable growth and development. I must commend the efforts made by the Management of BUA Foods towards this listing and the roles played by all the professional parties to this transaction including; Stanbic IBTC Capital Limited, Rand Merchant Bank Nigeria Limited, UCML Capital Limited, APT Securities Limited and CardinalStone Securities Limited.” “At NGX, this milestone transaction is in line with our strategic objectives to improve listings and enhance investors’ participation in our market. As a multi-asset Exchange, NGX is strategically positioned to be the preferred listing and investment destination connecting Nigeria, Africa and the world. I must, therefore, encourage capital market players and enthusiasts at home and abroad to pay closer attention to the plethora of opportunities available in our market both to list securities and make the most of their investments,” Mr. Popoola added It is noteworthy that the listing of BUA Foods’ shares has added N720bn to the market capitalization of NGX, further boosting liquidity in the Nigerian capital market and providing opportunities for wealth creation. Following the admission of BUA Foods’ shares on the Main Board of The Exchange on Wednesday, 5 January 2022, the company has experienced an upward trend in share price, market capitalization along with trading activity. 