…as Governor gets horse gift from Akande  BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Traditional rulers in Ila Federal Constituency of Osun State, the Orangun of Ila, Oba Abdul-Wahab Oyedokun; Owa of Otan-Ayegbaju, Oba Lukman Adesola Ojo Fadipe; Oluresi of Iresi, Oba Sikiru Adeseun Ibiloye and Orangun of Oke-Ila, Oba Omoniyi Adedokun Abolarinwa have declared their support to the second term bid of Governor Gboyega Oyetola. They made this known during the Strategic Engagement tour of Oyetola where he was warmly received by teeming party loyalists and residents of the area. In his usual style, the governor visited the palaces of all the traditional rulers within the Constituency and solicited for their blessings and support. The monarchs lauded his leadership style and sterling performance in office, saying that he had done creditably well to earn another term in office. The royal fathers urged their subjects, home and in the diaspora, to reciprocate the good works done by the governor in the last three years by voting for him massively in the July governorship election. Speaking at his palace, the Orangun of Ila, Oba Oyedokun, who applauded the good works of the governor, said his achievements in the last three years were enough testimonies for him to be reelected. He said with the support of God and people of the state, Oyetola will triumph over his detractors. “We are proud of what you have done and your achievements are enough testimonies to earn you another term in office. Don’t despair, our ancestors confronted travails and they emerged triumphantly, you shall overcome yours too. Your detractors will witness your success and you will triumph over them”, Orangun assured. Similarly, Owa of Otan-Ayegbaju, Oba Lukman Adesola Ojo-Fadipe, said in the last three years, the governor had not left anyone in doubt of his capacity to redefine and transform the state. Corroborating this, the Oluresi of Iresi, Oba Sikiru Adeseun Ibiloye and Orangun of Oke-Ila, Oba Omoniyi Adedokun Abolarinwa, declared their support for the governor saying “to whom much is given, much is expected.” Addressing leaders and members of the party at Ila-Orangun, Otan-Ayegbaju and Oke-Ila, Governor Oyetola urged them to safeguard their party’s registration slip and permanent voter’s card (PVCs) ahead of the forthcoming party’s primaries and governorship election in the state. Meanwhile, former governor of the state and first interim National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Bisi Akande, has gifted Governor Oyetola with a horse which he said, he should ride to power. Governor Oyetola had after his strategic engagement tour of Ila Federal Constituency, visited Akande at his residence in Ila. According to Ismail Omipidan, Oyetola’s Chief Press Secretary, “the presentation of the horse to the governor by Akande is highly symbolic and seen as a declaration of an unalloyed support for the person and candidature of Oyetola. “Horse, political pundits say, symbolises strength, power, freedom, triumph, heroism, nobleness, stamina, tireless, confidence and intelligence. “In fact, they say it is a precious gift of life and highly celebrated animal. Although, it is used for different purposes, what is constant, according to political pundits is that it is used as a ride to celebrate good things. “While accepting the gift, Governor Oyetola who was obviously surprised and excited with smiles on his face said “thank you very much.” 