 Ahmed Umar Goni, an SS2 student of Elkenemy College of Islamic Theology, Borno State, has been arrested by the police for allegedly using a razor blade to slit the neck of a JSS1 student of the school named Jubril Sadi Mato. It was gathered that trouble started when Goni sent the pupil, popularly known as Ramadan, on an errand on Wednesday, January 18, but the latter refused to go. Angered by his refusal, Goni reportedly went to Jubril’s hostel around 8:30pm to whisk him away. He was alleged to have cut the boy on the neck with a razor blade, leaving some of his veins in bad shape. It was learnt that the 11-year-old boy, while in pain, struggled to get to the principal’s office to report the incident. Having become weak and unconscious before getting to the principal’s office, he slumped and was rushed to the Intensive Care Unit of the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital. The suspect is currently being detained at the Homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Borno State Police Command. Nasiru Mato, the victim’s uncle who spoke with journalists, said that Goni attempted to abscond when Ramadan fainted, thinking that he was dead. Mato said, “From our own findings, one SS2 student known as Fairoz dragged our child behind their dormitory and used razor blade to cut his throat from different angles. “Our son eventually fainted and the culprit ran away, thinking that the child was already dead. We received a distress call from the school management on Wednesday morning on the development and we rushed to Maiduguri Teaching Hospital and found our child in a sorry state. “At the moment, he is surviving on tracheostomy even as the doctors said it is difficult for him to regain his voice after having had some of his veins cut. “We demand proper medical attention for the child, the school and law enforcement must also take necessary measures to investigate and prosecute the perpetrator.” Mato stated that the family was not satisfied with the way the school management handled the matter, adding that apart from being told that the culprit was in police custody, they did not give them his identity. 