 The larger-than-life story of musical star, David Adeleke, a.k.a Davido, would, on Sunday, be premiered on a dedicated page, the Nigeria Entertainment Today otherwise called Netng. The documentary would also be available for streaming on Netng’s YouTube channel as one of Africa’s most currently celebrated public figures, Netng indicated. Titled ‘We rise: The Davido story,’ the documentary captures the decade-long musical journey of the larger-than-life star. It also showcases how he made himself a springboard to success for many young Nigerians and up-and-coming artistes. It tells the story of Davido with an exclusive inside look at his journey from teenage, trying to get the attention of the world with his music and his struggles with his father who never wanted him to do music. It also spans his turbulent days of controversies with the media, his support for rising music stars and those around him, as well as his recent globally-acclaimed fundraiser in celebration of his 29th birthday. Davido’s is the second documentary from Netng in 12 months following the release of ‘Scapegoat: The story of D’banj’ in October 2020. ‘We rise: The Davido story’ is also the first feature documentary on Davido who had won more than 50 awards and over 80 nominations in a decade of his career. Femi Falodun, the CEO of ID Africa, said, “At ID Africa, our goal is to use digital media for capturing and sharing the stories of people, places, and events that matter to young Africans. Since 2009, Netng has been documenting the lives and times of Africa’s most important entertainers, and today, Davido is undoubtedly one of the most celebrated and recognised Africans globally. “Davido’s remarkable story is one that needs to be told, and this is just one of many that will come from Netng and ID Africa’s The Bang Studio.” The packaging of the documentary, spanning over eight months, features original interviews with leading entertainment industry figures such as founder and CEO of Storm 360, Obi Asika; and legendary DJ, Jimmy Jatt; media personalities, Gbemi Olateru-Olagbegi, Eromo Egbejule, and Tosin Ajibade; as well as Davido’s music lecturer at Babcock University, Dr. Olusegun Ojuola. 