 Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State says his administration has disbursed N7.5 million revolving loan to 52 widows of fallen heroes in the state. Akeredolu announced this at the Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration held at the Cenotaph, Alagbaka, Akure, on Saturday. The governor said that the gesture was to assist the widows of the fallen heroes to be less dependent on others for survival. He commended the military for its efforts in the fight against terrorism, banditry and other criminal elements in the country. “All over the world, especially in this part of the continent, every society has a unique culture of honouring their heroes. “Indeed, we are here today to appreciate all our fallen heroes, both military and civilians who had shed their blood for the unity and peace of this country. “They, indeed, fought a good fight for sustainability of their fatherland. We are here to say well done to them and those who have been favoured to be alive till today. “We, on our part, without mincing words, have come to praise them, both the departed and the living, for their patriotism. They have, indeed, sacrificed their lives for us to know peace. “They deserve our praises, they deserve our honours, and they deserve our appreciations.  It would amount to doing them the greatest injustice, just to praise them with words alone, but it becomes valuable, when it is backed up with our supports, financially and materially. “Since we came on board in 2017, we have been touching the lives of a considerable number of the widows of the departed heroes, through our microcredit revolving loans. “Our efforts in this direction would continue under this scheme and other packages as would be deemed fit to make these widows self-employed, self-reliant and independent through capacity training with start-up packages,” he said. Akeredolu urged the people to complement government’s efforts by donating generously towards the well-being of the legionnaires and also by employing the services of members who are still fit in productive enterprises. The governor lauded all security agencies in the state, including the Amotekun Corps, for their efforts at ensuring that there was peace in the state. (NAN). 