 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Members of the National Reconciliation Committee of the All Progressives Congress, on Saturday, arrived in Osogbo, Osun State, to resolve contentious issues among party members in the state. The committee, led by its Chairman, Senator Abdulahi Adamu, paid a visit to Governor Adegboyega Oyetola at the Government House, Osogbo, where he declared the readiness to ensure diligence and fair hearing in the task given. He said that the committee would attend to petitions vis-a-vis complaints from party members, stating that “We were inaugurated sometimes in November last year to serve as members of the reconciliatory committee on issues that border on relationship and institutional matters. “We have done much in the northern states and we started that of South-West on Thursday in Lagos. We were in Ogun State, and today (Saturday), we are in Osogbo, the Osun State capital city. “It is our intention to see what efforts had been made on those who petitioned. If they are identifiable, we want to meet with them. “After, we will come back to meet the governor and our party so that if there is any allegation or accusation from the petition received, we will listen to the responses in order to ensure fair hearing from all the parties. “Our intention here is to maximize the opportunity of getting evaluation of relevant materials after which we will go to Abuja and sit as a committee and develop what we have in the report, which we will share with the authority of the party at the national level. “It is our hope that we will have the cooperation to succeed from you, the government and, of course, our party members.” Governor Adegboyega Oyetola assured the committee of his cooperation, saying, “I appreciate this visit and I thank you most sincerely for taking the trouble to come to us. There is no organisation without issues, but what is important is to find possible way of reconciliation. “We will give you maximum support. I welcome the idea of accepting petitions and finding solutions to all contentious issues. We are peaceful people. Looking at the caliber of people that are involved in the committee, I have no doubt that reconciliation is possible.” 