 A newborn baby boy was savaged to death by a family dog after his mum fell asleep on the sofa and his dad went outside for a cigarette. Reuben McNulty was just 14 days old when his parents’ pet Staffordshire Bull Terrier bit his head up to 23 times, resulting in his death three weeks later. Parents Amy Litchfield and Dan McNulty had been previously warned by social workers not to leave Reuben unsupervised and alone with their two Staffies. But Amy, 31, was in a deep slumber next to Reuben, who also slept in a teddy bear bed on the sofa, and Dan had gone outside for a cigarette when the tot was savaged by one of the dogs at the family home in Yaxley, Cambs. An inquest today heard that neither Reuben nor the dogs were being directly supervised at the time of the attack just before 2am on November 18, 2018. The coroner heard that Dan returned inside to find Reuben and the white dog – called Dottie and aged around 6 – covered in blood, while Amy was still asleep. Dan immediately called 999, telling the operator: “I think the f****** dog’s attacked him. My partner was asleep, I just heard crying. “He’s just bleeding, you know? I was like what the f***?” When paramedics arrived, Daniel and Amy refused to hold Reuben, the inquest heard. The baby was airlifted to Addenbrooke’s Hospital in Cambridge where he was found to have suffered severe brain, spinal and skull injuries. Reuben died at the same hospital on December 13 – three days after life support was removed. Simon Newbury, a veterinary forensics expert, said that the dog may have bitten Reuben up 25 times in the head while shaking him around. Mr Newbury told the inquest at Peterborough Town Hall: “It’s possible that Dottie saw Reuben as a small prey or a squeaky toy. “It’s possible that Dottie was stimulated into a predatory drive by crying or a movement [by Reuben]. “There appears to have been no supervision of the dogs. Amy was in a deep sleep, Daniel was downstairs smoking.” Dan and Amy were both arrested by police on suspicion of child neglect after the incident but prosecutors decided not to charge them in December 2020. – mirror.co uk