 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI An indigene of Mgbalaukwu Isuokoma community in Onicha Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Chekwube Nnamani, has reportedly hacked two of his older siblings and three others to death after allegedly consuming a hard substance called methamphetamine, popularly known as Mkpuru mmiri in the South East. The names of those whom Chekwube, who is about 25-year-old, allegedly killed were given as Ekenechukwu Nnamani, Afamefula Nnamani popularly known as ‘Spirit;’ and three others over disagreement on a missing sim card. When The Point correspondent visited the community recently, some of the stakeholders of Mgbalaukwu Obasi Okorie and Umoke Mkpuma explained that the incident happened a week after Chekwube returned from Abuja for Christmas celebration. It was gathered that before the incident, Chekwube alleged that his memory card was stolen. While he had yet to ascertain the person who stole the sim card, Chekwube was said to have grabbed a sharp cutlass and butchered a man simply identified as Ekenechukwu, and another called Afamefula while they were asleep. Not satisfied, Chekwube went to the neighbourhood where he killed father of two children, Ogo Njom, also known as Sukwe and a lady whose identity has yet to be known. A source, who preferred anonymity, claimed that the trouble was not unconnected with a disagreement between the suspect and his family members around first quarter of 2021 over N1 million compensation which the family received from a telecommunication company. The source added that “Mr. Chekwube, in his tricky manner, launched the attack using the missing memory card as an excuse.” A resident who did not want to be mentioned said, “Since Mr. Chekwube came back from the journey, we did not notice any abnormality in his dealings because I can recall that before the problem, the man was interacting and associating with the rest of his peers in the village. “But, to our chagrin, on the sorrowful morning, we were woken from our sleep by the screaming and wailings emanating from the man’s family house.” It was gathered that after Chekwube came back to his senses and realized the magnitude of the havoc, he took to his heels. As at the time of filing this report, his whereabouts was not known. The Point learnt that Chekwube is now left with one brother having allegedly killed two of his siblings. The Commissioner of Police, Ebonyi State Police Command, Aliyu Garba, through the command’s Public Relations Officer, Odah Loveth Obianuju, confirmed the incident while speaking with The Point on the telephone. Garba said that Chekwube Nnamani acted under the influence of methamphetamine, an intoxicant popularly known as Mkpuru mmiri. Frowning at the attitude of the inhabitants of Mgbalukwu Isuokoma who failed to hand over the suspect to the police, he said that members of the public should always update security agents with useful information that could lead to arrest of criminal elements. 