Submits report  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The Governor of Jigawa State, Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, on Friday submitted the report of the All Progressives Congress Ekiti State governorship lrimary election, saying that his committee conducted the primaries with utmost fear of God. Governor Badaru is the chairman of the seven-member APC committee that conducted the direct primary election on Thursday, January 27, 2022. The APC Director of Organisation, Ussiju Medaner recieved the report on behalf of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee at the party’s National Secretariat, Abuja. Speaking to journalists on the outcome of the primary election, Governor Badaru said: “We have submitted the results sheets and reports where elections were conducted – 166 wards. 11 wards were disrupted and we cancelled those areas. But in 166 wards, people actively participated. And I think you all have the videos of what transpired in all the 166 wards except the 11 wards. Governor Badaru noted that the committee landed on January 26, had meetings with all the aspirants and 7 out of 8 attended, and they discussed the guidelines and agreed on all the terms. He called on aggrieved aspirants to support the party and the candidate to win the forthcoming governorship election in the state. “They (aspirants) are party members. What we expect them to do is to join hands with us so that we can continue to build the party and we continue to support the candidate that emerges. At the opening of my engagement with the aspirants, at the stakeholders meeting that we held in Ekiti State, I told them that power comes from God. And it is only God that will determine who will win.” Governor Badaru stated. While fielding questions, the governor refuted the claim that seven out of right aspirants withdrew from the polls reiterating “We landed on the 26th. I had meetings with all the aspirants and 7 attended out of 8. And we discussed the guidelines and we agreed on all the terms. What they are alleging probably, party members loyal to the governor, were chosen to serve as returning officers in various wards and local governments. “And they raised that at the meeting. And I asked them, the guidelines is to use the party people to do the job. We cannot hire or take people that are not from the party. But they can also give us 20 each from the party people that they believed will do justice to them. And they provided those 20 list which we incorporated into returning officers. And this was communicated in the early morning to them because they sent their own list very late and that was what even delayed us that night. “But we managed to incorporate all the 20 people each they sent to us to participate also in the exercise. But you can see from what happened that they are supposed to have agents in all the 177 wards. And this 11 wards that the primaries were disrupted were wards that had relationship with most of the aspirants. So, you can see if they have that power, to stop the congress, they could have done it also in the 166 wards.” Assuring that the Anambra experience where the party’s candidate claimed to have won the primaries with alarming figure but failed to record a high votes at the election proper, he said, “You can see the numbers. The winner got 101,000 votes out of 180,000 registered members. So it is a very realistic fact. It is only 60-65% membership that comes out to vote which is very realistic. “And for those of you that have been there on the field, you have gone round ward by ward by yourselves that it is actually people. Before the election, I promised the aspirants that I will never receive a result written where people have not participated in the process. And that was why the eleven wards cannot be returned to me because I knew there were violence and election didn’t take place. That is why I cancel them.” The Governor of Jigawa said the committee did not experience any form of challenges because the people cooperated. “Basically, there was no challenge in the whole process. People really came out and voted for the candidates they want and it has been relatively peaceful in the 166 wards. And when you have issues with only 11 wards, mark you we have also check the number of registered Voters in the 11 wards don’t have the capacity to upset the margin of lead by the winner. It then means that we declare the election conclusive because if we say let us do re-run, the margin of victory is far beyond the number of canceled wards.” 