 BY AUGUSTINE AVWODE The Vice-Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party in the 2019 election, Peter Obi, has described the past year, 2021, as a difficult one for Nigerians in all ramifications. Answering questions from newsmen yesterday at the Sam Mbakwe International Airport, Owerri, on what should be done for Nigeria to move forward in the new year, Obi said that from  the benefit of hindsight, that the most serious problem militating against the progress of the country was the issue of insecurity and that for the country to move forward, the security of lives and property should be made a priority. Obi’s media Aide, Valentine Obiyen, quoted him in a statement as saying, “Security of lives and property must be a priority for the country to move forward. With  security, investments will flow into the country and citizens will also have the confidence to invest in the country. Until the people are secured, they will not think of other meaningful things to do.” For the country to move on, especially now that election is approaching, Obi said, “Nigerians must resolve to choose good leaders for the country.  I am talking of leaders with verifiable antecedents and whose character and disposition are beyond reproach”, he said. Speaking further, Obi said he watched the Arise  TV programme of New Year day and was struck by two critical things Gov. El Rufai  of Kaduna said  about Nigeria, namely, the need to restore security  and need to ensure that competent persons are elected. “It was truthful of  El Rufai to have admitted that if security was guaranteed, that Kaduna state would have done better than she is doing presently. He did also mentioned that Nigeria is in a critical junction that need good leadership to salvage her,” Obi said. Concluding, Obi commended President Mohammandu Buhari’s recent visit to the North, especially to Borno state amidst ISWAP bombing. He said that  such visits always boost the morale of soldiers and reassure the people of his commitment to security. 