 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Crisis is looming in the Federal Capital Territory of Nigeria as youths gathered on Monday to resist the conversion of the Old Parade Ground Football pitch to a storage facility for the Genetic Modified Foods. The conversion which is being spearheaded by the president of Maize Farmers Association of Nigeria, Mohammed Kabir, has thrown the FCT into crisis. Youths, especially athletes are currently protesting plans by the authorities of the Federal Capital Territory Administration to turn the only functional football pitch located within the nation’s capital to GMO produce storage ground. The playing turf located at Area 10 Garki is popularly known as Old Parade Ground. Already, labourers sighted at the pitch were seen removing the perimeter fence where trucks load of farm produce will pass through to dump the produce on the lush green pitch thereby destroying it permanently. Also, in an effort to broaden space for heavy-duty trucks, FCTA reportedly pulled down a major fence leading directly to the pitch. The football ground is where most teams in FCT train and play competitive league matches every week. While the young athletes are still converging, few others were seen training grudgingly. Few months ago, Ratels Sports Development Foundation, owners of a Nigeria Women Premier League, Naija Ratels spent millions of naira to re-grass the pitch, renovate the dressing rooms and even the spectators’ stands. When contacted, the owner of the RSDF and Naija Ratels, Paul Edeh, condemned the decision, saying that it’s one of the reasons individuals and private sectors do not invest in government-owned facilities. He lamented that his reasons for investing in the renovation of the deteriorated facility has been defeated by this singular act of the government. “It’s very unfortunate that I have wasted the money I don’t even have by renovating the Old Parade Ground Football facilities to end youth restiveness in the FCT but look at what the government has done to my efforts. It’s very heartbreaking,” he lamented. Chief Press Secretary to the FCT Minister, Anthony Ogunleye, said he was not aware of the development and could not speak for the minister. 