 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The O’odua Peoples Congress has said it is not part of a coalition of 57 Yoruba groups alleged to be rooting for the South-West pro-restructuring presidential candidate in 2023. OPC Publicity Secretary,  Yinka Oguntimehin, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. Denying the involvement of the group’s chairman, Gani Adams in the mega accord, Oguntimehin described such moves as fraudulent and very far from the truth. The spokesman warned the groups against using the name of OPC for petty political mileage, as the OPC was not among the 57 Yoruba groups that met in Lagos at the weekend to mobilise the South-West for Tinubu, Osinbajo or Fayemi’s presidency. Reports say that the OPC was listed among those behind the mega accord of 57 Yoruba civil society groups that met in Lagos recently with a resolve to mobilise the South-West for a pro-restructuring presidential candidate in 2023. A communiqué issued after the meeting which was signed by Sunday Akinnuoye, Femi Agbana and Ganiat Toriola, noted that they were aware of presidential aspirants like Kayode Fayemi, Yemi Osinbajo and Bola Tinubu. They expressed their resolve to ensure that the 2023 presidential election produces a candidate that would restructure the country and address the lingering National Question irrespective of political platform. However, Oguntimehin said that OPC under the leadership of Adams had, at no time, mobilised the group for any politician, insisting that the group’s interest is beyond the 2023 general elections. He said, “Including OPC’s name without specific name attached to the purported arrangement of 57 South-West groups rooting for a South-West presidential candidate was a fraud and illegal because we are not a party to a meeting. “There was no visual or audio content of how, when or where the meeting was held, only for us to see the story in the papers. “We are aware that when elections are approaching, some politicians usually use the OPC’s name to curry favours. “There are some groups that are affiliates of political parties that usually make themselves available for politicians as at when due,” he added. He also noted that those groups have no programme or activities that they are known for. “Even if anything happens in Yoruba land, you don’t hear their voices, except, occasionally, during elections or when they are paid to issue statements against us. “So, I enjoin whoever that is behind the arrangement to toe the right path and be specific in attaching OPC’s name to any political accord. “Anybody or group using our name without proper attachment or specification amounts to fraud and we will handle such in the most conventional manner,” Oguntimehin maintained. 