 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A 25-year-old man, Wale Aworinde, has been arrested by men of the Osun State Police Command for allegedly killing a commercial motorcyclist, Ojo Adeyeye, after robbing him of his motorbike. In an interview with The Point, the suspect blamed the devil for the alleged murder of his victim. He claimed that he only got N10, 000 shares from the proceeds of the sale of the motorcycle which they snatched from the deceased. Aworinde said that he and members of his gang rode the motorcycle to Ibadan, Oyo State where they sold it at the rate of N140, 000 to a man. “After selling the Okada, I was given (the sum of) N10,000. I don’t know how they shared the rest of the money because other members of the group are my seniors. I was used by the devil; I regretted my action after the operation,” Aworinde said. The police have dragged the suspect and one of his accomplices before a Chief Magistrate Court in Osogbo, Osun State, over allegations of conspiracy, murder and theft. Police prosecutor, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Abiodun Fagboyinbo, told the court that Aworinde, and others now at large, shot the commercial motorcyclist, Ojo Adeyeye, to death with a gun during a robbery operation on November 19, 2021, at about 6:30am at Fountain University area, Osogbo. The charge reads that “Aworinde Wale and others now at large, on the same date, place and time, did unlawfully shoot one Ojo Adeyeye to death with a gun.” In a separate charge, Aworinde was accused of conspiring with one Olayemi Abiodun Samson, aged 22, to engage in armed robbery. “Aworinde Wale, Olayemi Abiodun Samson, and others now at large, on the same day, time and place, did conspire to commit a felony with armed robbery. “Aworinde Wale, and others at large, did arm yourselves with guns and other dangerous weapons and rob one Ojo Adeyeye (now deceased) of his Bajaj motorcycle with registration number BDS 874 QE OSUN, valued at N285,000,” the charge against the defendants further read. The police arrested one Ajibade Faruq for allegedly buying the stolen motorcycle “at a paltry sum of N140, 000, knowing the same to have been robbed or obtained by means of an act constituting a felony.” The three defendants were alleged of committing offences contrary to and punishable under sections 324, 319(1) and 472 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II Laws of Osun State.
The crime contravened sections 6(b), 1(1)(2)(a)(b) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act, Cap RII Volume 14, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. The plea by Aworinde and Samson was not taken. Faruq pleaded not guilty to the allegation of receiving a stolen motorcycle. The three defendants had no legal representation. Chief Magistrate A. A. Adebayo ordered that Aworinde and Samson should be remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre, but granted Faruq bail in the sum of N1 million with one surety who must be a property owner within the jurisdiction of the court. Considering the fact that Faruq resides in Oyo State, Adebayo ruled alternatively that his surety, if not resident within the court’s jurisdiction, should deposit N200, 000 cash to the court. The defendant was unable to meet the bail conditions and was, therefore, taken to the Ilesa prison custody until February 16, the adjourned date. 