 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI The Comptroller, Nigeria Correctional Service, Ebonyi State Command, Ndubuisi Ogbodo, has decried the alleged undue infringement of the fundamental human rights of awaiting trial inmates in the state. Ogbodo expressed his reservations during an interview shortly after a jail delivery exercise by the state Chief Judge, Justice Elvis Ngene, recently. The Comptroller lamented that most of the inmates in custodial centres had spent between four and 10 years or above, without getting access to justice. He called for speedy trial of inmates for prompt dispensation of justice, saying that this would also help in decongesting the custodial facilities in the state. Ogbodo, who said that eight inmates were freed, prayed the Chief Judge for more frequent jail decongestion exercises, and urged the Directorate of Public Prosecution on due diligence. “I want to beg the Director of Public Prosecution to be diligent in prosecution. Most of the awaiting trial inmates that we have in prison have spent more than four to five years and above without any charge filed against them and it is against their fundamental human rights,” he said. In his address during the special court session, the Chief Judge emphasised that the periodic jail decongestion exercise by judges was to address the undue detention of suspects. “We handled 13 matters, granted bail to seven, discharged one and remanded five others. That is the benefit of this exercise. Whenever we come and we see such a matter, we take it up as they are and admit such a person to bail,” he said. The State Director of Public Prosecution, Solomon Nteoma, in an interview, blamed the suspects for failing to mobilise lawyers to represent them, while also explaining that the over-congestion of custodial centres was due to the COVID-19 lockdown which affected court sittings. “You don’t talk of lack of diligent prosecution; you talk of whether information was filed. And, if information was filed, the question will be whose fault is it? Is it the Ministry of Justice or the accused person not paying his lawyer to represent him effectively?” Nyeoma asked. Among those granted bail on the occasion was Ugboji Alo who was charged for murder and remanded for nine years after his last court appearance in 2018. Godwin Utobo, who was brought to the Correctional Centre in a wheelchair from the hospital, and also spent eight years, nine months and nine days in detention for a similar offence, was also granted bail. 