 The Nigerian Meteorological Agency has predicted sunshine and haziness from Thursday to Saturday across the country. NiMet’s weather outlook released in Abuja on Wednesday predicted sunny and hazy atmosphere on Thursday over the northern region throughout the forecast period. According to the agency, moderate dust haze is expected in horizontal visibility of 2km to 5km over the North-Central region throughout the forecast period. “The inland cities of the South should be in moderate dust haze with a visibility range of 2km to 5km. “However, isolated rain showers are expected over parts of Imo and coast of Ondo State during the afternoon and evening hours. “The coastal cities of the South should experience early morning mist and fog patches which are expected to lift to give few patches of clouds along with hazy atmosphere during the morning hours,“ he said. It forecast localised rain showers over parts of Lagos, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Rivers and Delta later in the day. The agency envisaged hazy atmosphere on Friday with spells of sunshine over the North-Western region with moderate dust haze to the North-Eastern region in a horizontal visibility of 2km to 5km. According to NiMet, the north-central region shall be in moderate dust haze with a visibility range of 2km to 5km throughout on Friday. “Moderate dust haze is anticipated over the inland cities of the South, while the coastal cities should be hazy with few patches of clouds during the morning hours. “There are prospects of isolated rain showers over parts of Lagos, Ogun, Delta, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River and Bayelsa in the afternoon and evening hours,“ it said. The agency anticipated thick dust haze over the northern region throughout the forecast period on Saturday. It envisaged moderate dust haze over the North-Central region with a visibility range of 2km to 5km throughout Saturday. “Inland cities of South should be in moderate dust haze with visibility range of 2km to 5km and coastal cities of South should be hazy with patches of clouds within the forecast period,“ it said. (NAN). 