 BY AKINWALE ABOLUWADE, IBADAN Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, on Tuesday, urged politicians in the country to seek power mainly to better the nation. The governor spoke while receiving his Rivers State counterpart, Nyesom Wike, and his entourage, who paid a condolence visit to the state on the passage of the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji. Makinde stated that the unity of the Peoples Democratic Party should be paramount to all members of the party, noting that Nigerians were ready for the party to take over from the ruling All Progressives Congress. He said, “I want to welcome you all to Ibadan and thank you for identifying with us at this hour of our need and for deeming it fit to come down from your state. “Let me also thank you, Governor Wike, for the recognition of the work we have done for the National Convention. I make bold to say that even though we were the faces people were looking at, you provided a lot of support for us behind the scene. So, I want to thank and encourage you because leadership is a burden. “You have shown leadership in piloting the affairs of Rivers State. You have shown leadership nationally and in pushing for what is right and just in the affairs of the party. We can only pray for more strength and good health so that you will continue to render your service, at least, till the end of your tenure in Rivers State. “For us in Oyo State, we are following in your footsteps by giving dividends of democracy to our people. It is all about serving the people. “You mentioned just now about individuals jostling for the Presidency of our country under our party’s banner and what they need to know. Well, you have demonstrated it, and this is what we are doing in Oyo State. It is not seeking power for the sake of wanting to be in power but for the sake of making our country and our state a little better than the way we have met it. “This has been demonstrated time and time again, especially in Rivers State and that is what we are also doing here. The unity, especially that of the governors of our party, is paramount and most of the successes we have recorded so far are really because we are together.” “This visit is timely and appreciated, because 2022 is the year when the political parties will take decisions on who would fly the flags of their parties, from the Presidency to the lowest positions. This is a year we have to take serious decisions because whatever we do and whatever the outcome is, Nigerians will have to live with that for the next four years. “The past seven years have been a real disaster. If you look at the data, an economy that was growing at the rate of 5 to 6 per cent yearly before then suddenly became poor. We went into recession and we thought we were coming out but still went into another recession. “Meanwhile, the population is also growing at an alarming rate. So, just like our party has been pushing, this is the time to rescue Nigeria. We have a serious role to play in that effort.” Earlier, Wike said, “I am here with my delegation to commiserate with the governor and the people of Oyo State over the passing of the Olubadan. Of course, we believe that God gives and He takes and there is nothing anybody can do. God will guide you to install the new Olubadan who will help you to pilot the affairs of Oyo State and Ibadan in particular. “We have also come to let you know that it is important for us as a party to unite a lot of Nigerians who are waiting for the PDP and we cannot afford to lose this opportunity. The governors must be united. It does not matter who would be the party’s presidential candidate. Once the party and governors are united, I can tell you that the victory is on our way. The unity of the governor is key to making sure the party gets it right.” 