 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO One of the 2022 governorship aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP,  in Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke, has called on his co-contestants ahead of the March 7 primary to take the contest like a sporting race which shouldn’t breed enmity. He said his decision to give the governorship seat another trial was people-driven and that he was not afraid to face delegates at the primary election and the July 16 gubernatorial poll in the state. A statement issued by the Ademola Adeleke Campaign Organisation on Friday quoted the former Senator as reacting to the report of the PDP Appeal Screening Panel which, again, cleared him to contest the governorship primaries. While expressing appreciation to the committee and the national leadership of the party for standing by truth and justice, Adeleke restated his commitment to rescue Osun from bad governance, which the claimed the ruling All Progressives Congress has plunged it into. He noted that despite campaign of calumny and disinformation from certain quarters against his ambition and person, he would emerge victorious both at the primary and the governorship poll. Recall that some members of the party, especially a former Director of the Department of State Security, Mr Akin Adeyi, had petitioned the screening committee to disqualify Adeleke over alleged irregularities in his name and academic certificates. Adeyi argued that Adeleke could neither read nor write and so not qualified to govern the state. However, Adeleke, the governorship candidate of the party in the 2018 election, appealed to his co-aspirants not to see the race as a do-or-die affair adding that they must be united to defeat APC. He said, “My ambition to govern Osun State is people-driven. We are not afraid to face the delegates at the primary and the people of Osun State at the general election. I urge my colleagues to take the contest like a sporting race. “As for me, I repeat, we are not enemies; we want to serve; our ambition should not be a do or die affair. Let the delegates decide the candidate; let the voters elect the governor. “We must be mindful of our actions as we belong to the same party and family. We must be getting set for a united front to defeat our common enemy,” the governorship aspirant urged. 