 BY AKINWALE ABOLUWADE, IBADAN High Chief Theresa Oladuntan Oyekanmi, the Iyalode of Ibadanland, has declared her support for the Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland, Senator Lekan Balogun, as next in line to reign as the Olubadan following the passage of Oba Saliu Adetunji. In accordance with the position of her colleagues in the Olubadan-in-Council, she described Balogun’s nomination as the next Olubadan as right and proper. Oyekanmi expressed her position in a condolence letter written to the Olubadan-in-Council in which members were also congratulated on their choice of successor. The highest ranked female chief in Ibadanland, in a personally signed letter, wrote, “May I seize this opportunity to congratulate my fellow members of the Olubadan-in-Council for the seamless nomination of the next Olubadan, Senator Lekan Balogun, in accordance with norms and traditions of Ibadanland.” Oyekanmi wrote that she wholeheartedly aligned with the resolution of her colleagues in the Olubadan-in-Council, being the most rightful thing to do as it complied with Ibadan culture and tradition. The letter further read, “Senator Lekan Balogun is the rightful successor to the throne of Olubadan and the proclamation made by my brothers in the Olubadan-in-Council was well placed and had my support and blessing. “Ibadan women are for observance of culture and tradition of our land and the choice of Senator Balogun is our choice and has our blessings. As the head of the women wing, I, on behalf of the women folk both at home and in diaspora, assure the Olubadan designate of our unwaivering support and cooperation.” While calling for the support of all for the incoming Olubadan, Oyekanmi said, “What Ibadan needs now is for all hands to be on deck for smooth inauguration of the new Olubadan and more importantly, prayer for a peaceful reign.” She further wrote, “On behalf of my family, Iyalode-in-Council, and the good women of Ibadanland, I hereby convey my sincere condolences to the family of His Imperial Majesty, late Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso 1; members of the Olubadan-in-Council, the government and people of Oyo State on the passing into glory of Oba Adetunji which sad event occurred on Sunday, 2nd January, 2022. “Oba Saliu Adetunji contributed immensely to the progress and development of Ibadanland. We thank the Almighty Allah for his fulfilled life, remarkable impacts and relentless services to the people of Ibadanland. “We shall greatly miss Kabiyesi and we pray that all the legacies he left behind shall never perish.” 