 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE THE ruling All Progressives Congress may have resolved to come hard on some people said to be working against the interest of the party to ensure discipline and position the party to retain power in 2023. This is coming on the heels of acts by some individuals and groups within the party which stakeholders said could threaten the peace and stability of the party. A source close to the APC National Secretariat who asked not to be named, owing to the fact that he is not authorised to speak for the party, said the party had resolved to take “very serious and severe disciplinary measures” against those found to be working against its interest. He said, “I can tell you categorically that the party is considering coming down heavily on some party members whose actions are becoming dangerous for the unity of the party. Some of the individuals involved are high-profile. “I am aware of two Governors that have been penciled down for disciplinary action. One is from the North West while the other is from the South West. The Governors are said to be throwing stones at the party through their agents. Also, some Senators and Representatives are fingered in a secret report at the disposal of the party. “A Minister from the South East was also said to have been working against the interest of the party. The party may soon unmask these characters and deal decisively with them”. The All Progressives Congress has been enmeshed in serious battle of interests as various interests are poised for a showdown on the control of the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. In the same vein, a group within the APC, Progressive Initiative For Change and Development, has called on the leadership of the party to ensure all crises in the party are resolved before any National Convention is conducted. The National Coordinator of the Group, Chief Donatus Okereke, told newsmen in Abuja that the party was clearly not ready for a National Convention with the crises engulfing some state chapters, urging the national leaders of the party to ensure “proper and thorough reconciliation” before any National Convention is staged. He said, “We are great members of the All Progressives Congress and our interest is to put our house in order so that the party Nigerians rejected in 2015 does not return to power. “We wish to commend the CECPC of our great party under the leadership of Governor Mai Mala Buni for setting up a Reconciliation Committee to bring all interests together under one common progressive roof before we go into any National Convention. “There are processes and we cannot afford to toe the line of some parties that jumped ahead of reconciliation to conduct a Convention. We cannot follow the pattern of those who have been consistently and serially rejected by Nigerians since 2015. “Our party needs thorough reconciliation before the 2023 general elections. With what we are witnessing in some state chapters like Kebbi and some other states, it is pertinent we put our house in order before a National Convention. “Those calling for the National Convention amidst confusion in some state chapters are enemies of our party who do not have the interest of the party at heart.” 