 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE CHIEF Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, has said he does not believe in Igbo Presidency but in a Nigerian President of Igbo extraction. He said those who had already declared to contest for President ahead of the 2023 general elections were not serious. Kalu, who spoke while speaking to journalists in Abuja on Wednesday, said a serious minded person would like to be fair to Nigeria, fair to the society and to the atmosphere. According to him, if the Presidency is zoned to the South East, he has all it takes to contest. But Kalu, who represents Abia North Senatorial District in the National Assembly, warned that his party, the All Progressives Congress neither belonged to an individual or the media. The former governor of Abia state, however, noted that he had not begun consultations on his presidential bid. On those who had declared to contest, he said, “Well they are pushing but they are not serious. A serious minded person will like to be fair to Nigeria, fair to the society and fair to the atmosphere, because the party is not owned by me or you the media. “This party is owned by Nigerians and the APC members. It is only APC that can decide, like at the forth coming convention where the Presidential ticket will be zoned to. If they zone it to the South East, I have everything it takes to make a good President.” On the agitation for a President of Igbo extraction, he said, “It is overdue. I believe that we should produce the next President  and it is going to happen. I don’t need to push, I have to push along with the other regions.” He said his meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday night was a family affair, noting that it was not the first time he would be going to see the President. “This is not the first time I would go to see the President. Presidency is a place where people go in the afternoon. I went in the night to avoid the media. I go there regularly, it is a family affair and I went there to discuss national issues, issue of security, issue of well being of our country and issue of the electoral act,” he said. “The discussion was very fruitful and it was held in the night. Is that why you should come to ambush me?” He asked. 