 BY AKINWALE ABOLUWADE, IBADAN Heads of Local Government Administration in local government areas in Oyo State would begin to receive Consolidated Salary Scale which would enable them to take the same salary as pension after retirement. This was disclosed at a special meeting presided over by the Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatubosun. Also at the meeting were the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Bunmi Babalola; Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Government Service Commission, Akin Akinfunmilayo; Heads of Local Government Administration, and Directors of Education and Social Services in Ibadan, on Monday. Akinfunmilayo said that the gesture of the present administration was unprecedented as no former administration deemed it necessary to implement it. “The Heads of Local Government Administration are now on consolidated salary scale as approved recently by the governor, Seyi Makinde. This means that after retirement, the HLA will continue to collect the same salary he or she collected last when in active service. “It is unprecedented, it had never happened in the history of local government service in Oyo State. All we have benefitted from this administration, apart from the consolidated salary, are unprecedented. Look at the new Local Government Service Commission’s building that will soon be completed. We had been tenants in another building that belongs to another ministry for over 40 years,” Akinfunmilayo said. Olatubosun said that the essence of the gathering was to integrate the machinery of the local government system to project the activities, policies and programmes of the present administration in the state. “This meeting is called to integrate the communication of government activities, programmes and policies to the grassroot. We are using this medium to also charge our people at the local government to inculcate major stakeholders, opinion molders and other players to key into the preparation for the success of the 2022 Omituntun Cultural Festival. “It is one thing to perform, it is another thing to communicate performance to the grassroot. We will use these platforms to project major tourism potentials in the state,” the commissioner said. 