…Claim he’s  candidate to beat  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Friends of the incumbent governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola,  led by Senator Ajibola Bashiru have boasted that the governor is the candidate to beat in the forthcoming governorship election. Bashiru and his team made the declaration on Tuesday at the Buhari House national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress, Abuja, when they picked nomination form for the governor in support of his re-election bid. The lawmaker said the State of Osun is blessed with a governor whose interest is in giving his people dividends of governance and added that the state has never been better. He noted that the friends of the governor voluntarily came to the APC Secretariat to pick the interest and nomination forms for him not to urge him to contest rather to support his ambition to govern the state for another four years because, “We have looked at his performance in this first term and are convinced
that he has performed creditably and tremendously well, so he should continue.” He also noted that the governor has done so well in many areas including welfare, health, education, infrastructure and has made them second to none. Senator Bashiru said the group is convinced that APC remains the party after the hearts of the good people of Osun and as such does not depend on an individual to win elections. “I will not reduce the issue of our party to issue of personality. Political parties are institutions of democracy and they are run on the basis of the structure of the political parties as well as the leaders of the party. Today, in  the State of Osun, the highest hierarchy of our party is constituted in what is called Egbe Igbimo Agba which is headed by no less a person than the founding chairman of our party, Baba Bisi Akande, and we also have former governors, deputy governors, members of national assembly, current and seasoned politicians in that club. “We also have federal constituency structures in all the nine federal constituencies. We also have ward executives, local executives and unit executives. So, it’s about structures that win elections and not personality. So we believe that the existing structures of our party is such that the party that is really in existence today is the APC and I will give you statistics.  Beyond the 2018 election, the first election and the only election that has been conducted under the leadership of Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola is the 2019 general elections and I challenge you to go to INEC website to download the results. “There are nine federal constituencies in the State of Osun. Our party APC had six out of that nine seats and of course if you do the percentage that is about 65%, that’s B plus. Then in the Senatorial election in the three Senatorial districts, our party got two out of the three Senatorial districts I think that’s also about 70% and of course in the house of assembly,  of the 26 seats we have in Osun, our party had 23 out of the 26 and all of them are still members of our political party. “So when you have a political party that has in its fold two senators,  six house of Representatives members and 23 elected State legislators I think it is beyond any doubt to say the party to beat in the State of Osun is the APC and the leadership of the party has provided structure to ensure that we deliver massively. And we also know that the presidential election in  2019, Osun is one of the States that delivered for our leader president Muhammadu Buhari. So no doubt, the State of our party is strong, vibrant, cohesive and articulate to deliver for the party in the 2022 election.” He reiterated that the friends of the governor are not persuading him to contest because he has declared his interest publicly. “I don’t think the inference to draw is the fact that we have collected form. The inference is not necessarily the logical implication of the fact that we have picked the form. The governor at the maiden meeting of the traditional council in the Oba traditional council that was held last week openly and publicly declared his interest to contest. “The fact that we have picked up the form doesn’t mean we are persuading him and of course if somebody who has a vision to actualize and  he has already been actualizing that and  if he wants to ensure that he utilizes the maximum constitutional limit that the law gives him. So it’s not a necessary inference that the fact that we felt we believe in his leadership, we believe in continuity and we his friends have decided to pick up the forms doesn’t mean he is not interested in giving leadership and continue in office beyond November 2022.” He dismissed the claims that the state APC is in disarray, saying, “There’s nothing like mass defection, in fact if there’s any movement, it is movement towards APC. From what is on ground today, objectively, and you can go and conduct vox pop in the streets of Osun, the party to beat is APC and the aspirant that will get the mandate of APC is Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, no doubt about it.” He said governor Oyetola’s membership of the APC Caretaker Committee would not give him any undue advantage over other aspirants. “By training I’m a lawyer, and at the risk of sounding immodest, I’m a legal scholar, I have a PhD in law.  Whether the membership of the CECPC would be an issue would be a matter of interpretation of even the nature and character of the office of membership of the APC caretaker committee and I believe the governor would avail himself of legal advice as to whether there would be any  contravention of the Constitution and I said that advisedly not in terms of bias because if your logic about being bias would also mean that the governor should resign from being a governor because he’s contesting for the office of the governor of course the Constitution allows him to stay in office even while he’s still contesting and still retain the apparatus of office. “So whether or not he would resign is not on the basis of the likelihood of bias and the best even in corporate governance, if you’re a member of the board and a decision is to be taken that affects your issue that you have interest in, you will have to recuse yourself from that one. So it could well be possible that if he doesn’t resign, when decision is about to be taken in relation to Osun he may recuse himself from that, and of course even in areas where there are conflict of interest, there’s what we call the China wall in corporate practice whereby you separate your personal interest by making  declaration and not participate in that decision but whether  or not he would resign is not a political decision. It’s a legal question and I believe the governor would be availed of the best possible legal advice as to the nature and character of the office vis-a-vis the existing provision of the Constitution of the APC. And for the comments credited to Honourable Lasun, “If indeed he made that statement, it is quite unfortunate. Unfortunate in the sense that how would somebody be seeking to fly the ticket of a party that he ridicule in public. It stands logic in the head. I don’t believe he said that but if indeed he said that something has to be probed in that regard. But I will also tell you, the election was conducted in 2018 the outcome of the election was contested by the loosing party at the tribunal and of course they got judgment at the tribunal. The matter went to the court of appeal, the court of appeal decided the case in favour of our party and in favour of Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, the matter was appealed by the loosing party to the supreme Court and the supreme Court put a final seal as to the victory of our party in that election. By my training as a lawyer, the matter is said to be res judicata,” he said. 