My life is in danger, disowned member cries out  BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The internal wranglings rocking the Peoples Democratic Party in Osun State have worsened as the party disowned a former Director of the Department of State Security, DSS, Akinloye Adeyi for questioning the alleged discrepancies in the certificates of Senator Ademola Adeleke, one of the July 16 governorship aspirants in the party. Adeyi had petitioned the Appeal Committee of the PDP Governorship Screening Committee and pointed out what he called discrepancies and damaging errors  contained in Adeleke’s academic credentials and other documents. He also alleged that the former Senate member can’t read and write. The party said it has been discovered that Adeyi’s name is not in any of the records of the 11 Wards that make up Olorunda Local Government Area of the state and therefore, disowned him. A statement jointly signed by Lateef Ibrahim Adesina, Chairman, Ward 1, PDP Olorunda Local Government, Nathaniel Adekunle Ojetola, Chairman, PDP, Olorunda Local Government and Bola Ajao, Secretary, Osun State Chapter of PDP, and made available on Saturday, said Adeyi tarnished the image of some party leaders in the media. The party described him as an impostor and accused him of being dismissed from the DSS. According to the statement, “Arising from a meeting on Thursday 27th day of January, 2022, stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party in Olorunda Local Government area of Osun State refuted membership of the self acclaimed member of the party in ward 1 of the local government, Mr Akin Adeyi, describing him as mere social miscreant and marauding impostor latching on to the good image of the PDP to create undeserved impression about himself and augment emptiness of his life. “The disclaimer came on the heels of recent sponsored attacks by Akin Adeyi through media platforms on the frontline Governorship Aspirant of the party in Osun State, Senator Nurudeen Ademola Adeleke which the local government chapter of the party described as stupid and utter irresponsibility of a chronic busybody. “The stakeholders comprising of the Local Government Executive Committee, wards and and units chairmen as well as prominent leaders of the party in the local government being dubiously claimed by Akin Adeyi as his political record base, dissociated themselves from all activities of Akin Adeyi and his cohorts, saying, the dismissed secret  service officer is not known to all records of the party in all the wards, especially in Ward 1, unit 2 in the local government, which is the main requisite for membership of a political party. “Consequently, the resolution was forwarded to the State Working Committee and got ratified at the State Executive Committee meeting held on Friday 28th January, 2022. “The PDP advised all media houses, security agencies, PDP allies across the country as well as members of the public to desist from dealing with Akin Adeyi in the context of a member of the party in Osun State as doing so would be at the risk of such individual who may be liable for consequences arising from unbridled defamatory actions against the PDP leaders and members in Osun State by Akin Adeyi. “The party describes Adeyi as a jobless vagabond, who looks for all means of survival especially in political circles and at this period of heightened electioneering. “The Olorunda PDP Stakeholders recall the crooked antecedents of Akin Adeyi in the state, who had attempted to dupe several leaders of the party, including Senator Ademola Adeleke through tricks of blackmail and unsolicited gossip. “We are not unaware of the clever by half attempt to swindle Senator Ademola Adeleke through judas Iscariot confession of willful atrocities against the distinguished Senator as candidate of our party in 2018. The then viral audio clip of this attempt is still around internet space. We then wonder why such unrepentant fraud is being indulged as a member of the PDP in Olorunda local government. “Again, we wish to reiterate that Akin Adeyi is a ‘non-living thing’ in the records of our party in the 11 wards making up the party in Olorunda local government of Osun State. Any individual or organization having any dealing with him in this context of a member of the PDP does so at his or her own risk.” Meanwhile, Adeyi, in a message he personally issued on Saturday, raised the alarm that his life and those of his family members have been threatened. In the message titled: “Alert: Threat to Life, Akin Adeyi cries out,” said “ever since he formally pointed out to the PDP Screening Appeal Committee the discrepancies and damaging errors that were contained in Senator Ademola Adeleke’s academic credentials and other documents, his life and those of his family members are being  threatened by people he strongly suspected to be Adelekes agents.” He said he had alerted the authority on this unpalatable development and that if anything untoward should happen to him or his family members, it is the Adelekes and their supporters that should be held responsible. 