In this interview with MAYOWA SAMUEL, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party and a former chairmanship aspirant in Lagos State, Tokunbo Pearse, exposes why his party has been unable to win general elections in the state. He also unfolds strategic moves to reposition the PDP and how power will shift from the ruling APC to the PDP in 2023.  Excerpts:  In 2019, you were the Lagos governorship candidate under the platform of the Social Democratic Party. What were your reasons for dumping the party? You will recollect that after the party’s national convention, the presidential candidate was not readily identified because Donald Duke won the primaries at the convention but in a month, Professor Jerry Gana challenged his victory. Jerry Gana’s argument was that the national chairman of the party cannot come from the South. That National Chairman was Chief Olu Falae and Donald Duke was also from the South, so both the presidential candidate and the national chairman cannot come from the South. Unfortunately, we had gone into the convention without that issue being brought up. From that point on, the identity of the presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party was in doubt. It was in court and it was going back and forth. Basically, the party never had a candidate. The leaders in the party were not just being truthful. I was in the PDP with Professor Jerry Gana and Professor Tunde Adeniran. They were the ones that took me to the SDP because I was the spokesperson for Adeniran when he was running for national chairman. Having failed that national chairmanship race, we were under pressure from the new national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus. So, Professor Gana and Professor Adeniran felt that Secondus and his people were determined on a winner takes all, they were not ready to negotiate anything with them, so they decided to leave. But in leaving, the plan was to work for Atiku for president and from SDP. We will bring out a Vice-Presidential candidate. That was the plan, that’s why we joined the Coalition of United Political Parties. That was really the idea for going to SDP. So when we emerged from the congress, we had thought that at the end of it, Donald Duke would be the Vice-Presidential candidate to Atiku but now that this whole issue with Professor Jerry Gana was coming up, everything became a mess, we had no direction. That was one of the reasons why the party basically could not function and when you have a dysfunctional party, people begin to go their separate ways. I did not leave the party first, what happened was that as we were going for the general election, we had taken the position that well, we came into SDP and the CUPP to support Atiku for president and I stayed on that issue. Unfortunately, the national leader of the party, Chief Olu Falae decided to abdicate his position and leave the chairmanship with Professor Tunde Adeniran. Adeniran about two, three weeks before the general election, decided to endorse Muhammadu Buhari and that was totally unacceptable. I was now saddled with the responsibility in Lagos as the governorship candidate; I had also been the organising secretary and publicity secretary of the party in Lagos. So I was doing a lot of work for the party, the party had no money, not a penny. We were raising our own money ourselves, so the party could not function. Then to add to it, we were living on a principle which was that we will support Atiku for president. But when our national leader decided that he was going to support Buhari for the APC for president, it was unheard of. So, I decided it was time for me to leave on principle and go back to the PDP where I had been before. I now joined the Atiku campaign for president and that was how I left the SDP. In October last year, you sought to become Lagos PDP Chairman in the election which eventually didn’t hold. Is that still your aspiration? Well, up till October of last year, I was in the race for state chairmanship of the party. You saw what happened at the Congress. I had gone round every local government to solicit their votes and ask for their support. I went to Badagry, Ikorodu, Epe but unfortunately, the others who were running only did their campaign with Chief Bode George and once they got his endorsement, they felt that was the way to win. So, we got to the Congress at Tafawa Balewa Square, everybody came from all over the place to cast their votes and I think Chief Bode George and his people realised that it was not enough for them to endorse somebody because the person they endorse,  Dr. Fawole was not getting any vote and all of a sudden, we heard that Chief Bode George went to the secretary of the Congress, Senator Biodun Olujimi and asked her to cancel the Congress but she refused and when she refused, they walked away and the next thing was that we started hearing gunshots, so everybody dispersed. He claimed he didn’t order the gunshot and knew nothing about it but we suspected that he had something to do with it. But for whatever it is worth that was the end of the Congress. Then looking at the whole scenario, I decided that I was no longer interested in an election that will involve the whole of the state and I’ve withdrawn my interest in the state chairmanship race. So, for now, I’m going to go for the Senate, to represent the Lagos Central Senatorial District. Bearing in mind what you just said about Chief Bode George and Amos Fawole and the crisis at the Congress, how would you describe Chief Bode George and the problems within the party? It is unfortunate. I think it is his military training, he has not transcended his military mindset whereby if you are the boss, everything must revolve around you, nobody else must talk or express an opinion. A unitary system, it’s the same unitary system that is creating problems for Nigeria right now whereby everything is decided from the centre in Abuja. So for him, everything must be decided at his house in Lugard and I discovered that, frankly, I’m telling you what happened was that Governor Seyi Makinde, the leader of the PDP in the South West insisted that for that state congress, he will not endorse anybody and he will not support selection, that if we are going to have peace in Lagos State, we must have a proper, open, free, fair and democratic election. He insisted that we all should go and campaign and I went to campaign and I said this is fantastic, this will really empower you, all you have to do is go to the local government, ask to see your delegates, discuss with them, get their opinion, what they want from you and tell them what you can do and once they agree to support you, you are going to get their support. This was what I did but Chief Bode George doesn’t believe in that, he believes that all the candidate has to do is come to him and once you have his blessing, you will emerge. Unless we stop that in our party, we cannot win any election because if you use your influence as Chief Bode George could do to win the primaries for a  candidate, the other candidates and their supporters will not support your candidate at the general election. That’s what happened to Jimi Agbaje in 2015, I said it at the time, I’m on record, everybody in the party knew my position at that time was that Agbaje was new in the party, he had just come in about four, five months before the election and Chief Bode George used his influence to get him the ticket and I said you can win the primaries, use your influence and trickery to get him to win the primaries but our members were not happy. So, after the primaries, the party was divided into at least two camps, the Bode George camp and the Musiliu Obanikoro camp. So the Obanikoro camp which probably has been within the party was more than Agbaje because Agbaje just came in. Obanikoro has been in the party, invested time, energy and his money for about three years before that period, then came the general elections, people did not come out to vote for Agbaje, our own people, that’s how we lost the election. So, until we change our ways and pursue just pure democratic elections, fair and open, that will make it credible. If we do that, we will win elections, but if we don’t, we will lose because our party will be divided before the general elections. Olajide Adediran, popularly known as Jandor, announced the defection of his APC faction, the Lagos4Lagos Movement, to the PDP. You just talked about Agbaje joining the PDP close to the general election. Do you foresee a repeat of the Obanikoro/Agbaje tussle in the case of Jandor and other already established aspiring Lagos governorship candidates in the party? I don’t think so, I’ll tell you why. One, Jandor is coming in more than a year before the election. Two is that people know him as ambitious to run for governor. Agbaje came in through the backdoor; we were only hearing rumours, Agbaje never made any clear declaration of his intent. He only made his intention known to Chief Bode George and his clique. I was very close to Chief Bode George at the time and I kept asking him, Chief, what is going on? He will tell me that no, it’s not possible, Agbaje has not even joined the party, how can he run for governor? Do you see the difference? Now everybody knows Jandor wants to run, he has told the whole world that it is democracy. Also, Jandor has gone everywhere and seen everybody from the leaders to the members from national to zone, to the states, wards, he’s going everywhere and he’s setting up structures everywhere. Furthermore, I can tell you that a lot of people working with Jandor are people who used to be active members and leaders in the PDP. They went to the APC, let me not say somebody drove them to the APC, and now, they are coming back. Therefore, they understand the dynamics of the PDP. All the problems that I’ve mentioned, they understand them better than I do and they will not allow it to happen again. There are also people like myself who had been through these whole divisions which had led us to lose elections, we will not stand by and let anybody hijack Jandor’s campaign and turn it into his one-man show leadership campaign, thereby dividing the party, we will not allow it to divide our party this time and thankfully, Jandor understands this very well. Jandor will run a free and fair election, that’s why he is going everywhere, trying to impress everybody, so that he will win the primary. If he wins the primary, he becomes the candidate, there will be no division. Right now, I am sensing a lot of discontent between our members which most of these leaders stay out there and they don’t know. I go everywhere, I go to visit, I don’t just talk to people on the phone, I go to their wards, events and I talk to them and they say that they want Jandor to come and talk to them. If he talks to them and they are convinced, they will vote for him in the primaries, there will be no division. He will win his election that way because people suspected that Agbaje did not win the primaries, that it was Bode George that won the primaries for him, he was his candidate. Can you imagine being the supreme leader and you have a candidate? So, you will reject all your other children for one? Your family will never be at peace. We will not allow that to happen this time and so long as we have a free and fair election, whoever emerges will now be our candidate and all of us will support that candidate. There was something else that happened during that period of Agbaje. I tell you, it must not happen again. After Agbaje won the primaries, and the division was there, there was no attempt by Bode George and his fellow leaders to bring everybody who was aggrieved, they didn’t go out of their way to speak to them. People like me, and a lot of people stayed on and didn’t complain and just managed. I refused to stay with them, I decided I was going to be with Obanikoro and became the D.G of Koro’s campaign because I was also running for governor at that time in 2015, we were aspirants, six of us, late Segun Ogundinmu, late Dr. Dominic, Gbadamosi, Dr. Ade Dosunmu, Deji Doherty and myself. So, all of them decided to stay on, one way or the other, many of them were not happy, Ade Dosunmu had never reconciled with Bode George since then, neither was Doherty, Gbadamosi. You cannot have all these people aggrieved and not talk to them seriously and reach an agreement with them before you go into an election. If you don’t, even if they want to support you, their followers will not go out to vote for you, that’s why they say our agents are not reliable on an election day, they buy them over. They buy them over because they want to be bought over. If we had talked to them, reconciled them and we are all on one page, nobody can buy your agents and that’s what we are going to do this time. Jandor is an opportunity for us to win. With this force he is bringing in, if we manage it well, democratically, openly and fairly, we shouldn’t have a problem in winning the election in 2023. What if Jimi Agbaje returns to contest for the governorship again? Agbaje has said several times in the media that he is not coming back. Even if he wants to come back, I don’t think he has a chance in the world. Don’t forget that he has been there two times now and he has a reputation at the party, it wasn’t a very positive one, not a good one at all. No, I don’t see any possibility, it will be a joke. If he comes out, where will he get the delegates? He has offended virtually everybody. Are you among those who think the APC’s advantage in Lagos and most of the South West states is as a result of them having a political godfather in the stature of Bola Tinubu which the PDP apparently doesn’t have? That is why we have lost elections since 2007. Through the interventions of Tinubu, his party, whatever they called themselves at that time, was able to win most of the South West and they kept it till 2015 and kept it again in 2019 but I will put it to you that things are different now. The man Tinubu is not the same man he used to be. You can see that now, he is even begging Buhari for permission to run for president, what an insult. That is the way things have turned out for him. Now that he wants to run for president, so many things are coming out. I recently read about the drug related case that he had in the U.S in 1998, which is not in his favour, the financial scandal that he has in Lagos State, the ethical problems and so many others. Bola Ahmed Tinubu of 2007, 2015 is not even the same now. Then, look at the party itself, the structure of the party is crumbling. The party in Lagos State is divided into four. They have four APC factional chairmen in Lagos State alone. There is the Salvador group, there is the Fuad Oki and Jandor group, Governor Ambode group and the Tinubu group, all of which have their own chairmen and their own followers and structures. Three of them that are not with Tinubu are against him. So, his party is in disarray in Lagos State. If Jandor continues the way he is doing, a large number of people will support him and I can tell you that a lot of people in the party now in Lagos are not happy, they’ve not been happy since 2015. They were just looking for a way out, it was the PDP that was not organised enough to absorb them but with this Lagos4Lagos Movement, I think they will have a reason to support the PDP. I think that the power shift is obvious that in 2023, not only will PDP win the governorship, we will win the three Senate seats, at least two out of the three, we will win about 50 per cent of the House of Reps. We will win between 30 and 40 per cent of the State Assembly. So, the power will shift from the APC to the PDP. That’s where we are now. Do you agree with the insinuations that there are APC moles in the Lagos PDP that have been hampering the growth of the opposition in the state? Oh Definitely. I’ve heard it said by Bukola Saraki that there are double agents in our party. I’ve heard Governor Seyi Makinde in person say it. I’ve heard them say that there are double agents in the party. They are PDP only in the afternoon when people’s eyes are on them, at night, they are APC, they hide behind our backs and they are of the very high level of the party, that’s the problem. That’s why we have been losing elections. They were able to do that because the APC was able to pay them and the APC was in power. APC had the influence. Now that APC doesn’t have the influence anymore, they’ll need to melt away. They won’t be able to do their job anymore. Yes, they will still be agents but they will be impotent double agents. What are your thoughts on the rejected 2021 electoral amendment bill and the controversial direct primaries? As a dyed-in-the-wool democrat, all the way, that’s my mantra, just have people vote. In the United States where I’ve worked and lived for so many years, I tell you, they always had direct primaries. That is how members of the party can be involved and know exactly what is going on in the party. They know the candidates, they follow the candidates from the primaries to the general election. The way we have it now, most of these members don’t even know the candidates except the delegates. So, when we get to general elections, you now expect all the delegates to vote for this candidate that they never knew. Those are what we have now with this indirect system, but let us have proper democratic corrupt-free elections. Whether it’s direct or indirect, the most important thing is for you to be fair and open. Be sincerely democratic, allow the votes to count. Do not rig elections. What are your views regarding zoning? Think about it, this zoning issue came up recently in our politics. It was PDP that brought this idea of zoning. It came in because of what happened to MKO Abiola. That was a crisis situation, an unusually complex situation whereby the man who had won the election was from one area but now, you want to have an election again, you felt that the area should be compensated. Is that democracy? No, that was just a decision for that particular situation. What democracy is about is simply allowing everybody to participate.  This idea of zoning is the most undemocratic thing you can imagine. You zoned me out but I’m the best for the country, you zoned me out and I’m a bonafide member of the party but I cannot even contest. I don’t believe in zoning, I believe we should have the best person to come into the election. The reason why they are all crying over the election was that they have not fortified their own party properly. For instance, in the PDP, I think about 61% of our delegates are from the North, therefore if you have a primary election, a northerner is likely to emerge, that’s why they are all afraid. 58% or more of the delegates will come from the North because of all the old appointees, former senators, former governors, former this and that, current senators, they will always win elections. So, what the APC and PDP have to do is to address that issue first. Democracy is the principle of equal opportunity for all. Now Ibos are saying you must zone it to the South-East, so only Ibo people should now go and contest for president, can you imagine? To avoid this zoning issue, we must go back and look at the structure and formation of the two political parties. As things stand, nobody from the South can win a fair, open, democratic election for president. Therefore, if they don’t want to keep on losing elections, they must go and form their own party and see what happens. The problem is that there is no party in the South; both major parties are in the North. Some people in the North are still claiming that the region is entitled to four years, since late President Umaru Yar’Adua couldn’t complete his tenure before his death You see, this is what zoning will cause you. I don’t think that is a serious claim. In the PDP, it shouldn’t be an issue; unfortunately, they are bringing it up in the PDP. We have not done our work in the South, and if we still don’t, we will continue to suffer, we will lose elections. Who is the candidate? There is no candidate in the South. For Yemi Osinbajo, what does he want to lean on? What structure does he have? Is he not a partner in this government? If he wasn’t a partner, why didn’t he resign? He kept praising this old man. He created Trader Money and the rest; he is giving them N10, 000 instead of teaching them how to fish. What is somebody going to do with N10, 000? It’s a joke, they didn’t do anything to empower the people, and they didn’t do anything to strengthen the economy. He keeps praising Tinubu. What was Tinubu’s achievement when he was governor of Lagos? Zero. The only time people talked about Lagos was when Raji Fashola was governor. So, what has been his contribution? Except that he has made area boys kings in Lagos. You could see from two questions on Arise about Tinubu – the source of his wealth and how old he is. Jubrin couldn’t answer because the only way he could have answered was either to lie which will just be a joke, or to tell the truth which will indict Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The journalist asked him, where did he work? Which industry did he have or set up? How did he make his money? I wrote something about Tinubu’s age. If his sister’s son, the governor of Osun State is 67 years old today, then how old was he when his sister had the baby? His first son is now probably 40 years old. The way it appears from calculations, the sister must have been about two years old when she had the baby. Only in Greek mythology can you have that. He cannot justify that age. I know his friends who laughed at me and ask, “is my elder brother telling me that I’m his uncle?” They laugh at him because they all know that the age is falsified. Age is catching up with him now. Nigerians, as bad, corrupt, forgiving as we are, we have never elected a person to be president, knowing before that person became president that his integrity was in question. Take a look at all our presidents; they all had a good reputation. Buhari was known as no-nonsense, clean person, with no corruption, even though we know now that was a mistake. We’ve never done it and we won’t do it this time. In 2019, you described President Buhari as an autocratic and ethnic bigot in a democracy. Do you still hold the same view today? I said a lot of times during that period that if you people think that Jonathan was bad, you will regret voting Buhari because Buhari will be much worse. Has he not proven it to be true? All you have to do is to research the person you want to elect. I found out about Buhari, I checked his background, I checked his record when he was head of state, I checked his record when he was in the army and that’s how I came to the conclusion that he is a bigot and an autocrat. That’s why I knew at the time that he was an autocrat and that he would not be able to do anything good for Nigeria. I believe very firmly that the only way forward for Nigeria is to reorganise the structure of this country. Go back to what Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, PANDEF and others have been saying. Go back to the 1963 structure of government, just like they have real federalism in the US. Every state has control over its own economy, security, educational system, and so on. That doesn’t mean there won’t be federal control. The federal government has its own role to play. For instance, the judgement on the land issue in Shangisha/Magodo recently, that’s the way it works. There is state law, then there is federal law. If the Supreme Court makes a judgement, the Federal Government will enforce the judgement but if it’s a judgement given by the state judiciary, then it is the state police that will enforce that law. That’s the way it should be. How can you make law at the State Assembly and you have no police to enforce that law, what’s the point? We must elect a person who is fully committed and understands the benefits of restructuring, decentralisation of powers and diversification of the economy.