 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA No fewer than 500 support groups for the candidacy of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo in the 2023 Presidential election stormed Abuja from across Nigeria, on Wednesday, to strategize towards the forthcoming All Progressives Congress presidential primaries. The Progressive Project for Osinbajo hosted the representatives of the groups in the FCT on Tuesday, barely 48 hours after hosting a coalition of 57 youth and students’ groups. At the TPP office in Abuja on Wednesday, former, serving and prospective candidates for councillorship, chairmanship, state and federal legislative positions, alongside a few former and serving commissioners from different states exchanged their views on how to make impacts for the VP at the grassroots. The Head of TPP Situation Room, Jeffry Omoh, who addressed the representatives of the support groups from the six geo-political zones, stated that their strategy shall emphasize mobilization of delegates patriotism, not ‘mobilization of Naira.’ He urged the supporters to go home, study their environment more, improve their interactions with people and return with suggestions and ideas that TPP and its constituent teams could work with. “We thank all members of the approximately 500 support groups who are already identifying with us with firm commitment towards mobilising Nigerians towards achieving an Osinbajo Presidency in 2023,” he said. Dr. Mustapha Jibril, Niger State Commissioner for Investment, Commerce and Industry, said that the loyalty demonstrated to President Muhammadu Buhari, disciplined focus and other good qualities of Prof. Yemi Osinbajo drew the attendees from various parts of the federation to pursue a common cause. Precious Elekia, who led the Cross River State Coalition for Osinbajo 2023 group, said that “It is time to vote for Nigeria and not a time to vote for Hausa, Igbo or Yoruba.” Elekia described Osinbajo as a viable and sellable candidate that appealed to all dimensions of national interest. 