 BY MOYINOLUWA BAMIDELE-LUCAS Bamidele-Lucas The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, on Friday decorated Kehinde Patrick Longe and his wife, Yetunde Longe as Commissioners of Police. The couple was among those promoted by the Police Service alongside 15 other Commissioners of Police. Investigations showed the husband and wife were enlisted into the Nigeria Police Force on the same day- March 3, 1990- as cadet Assistant Superintendents of Police. They met at the Police Academy in Wudil, Kano state. It was revealed that they developed a relationship that has bloomed into a long-subsisting marriage. They have served in different capacities at different police platforms across the nation. Yetunde once headed the Lagos State Criminal Intelligence Investigation Department Panti, Yaba, Lagos. While she was the head of the department, she was hailed for her sincere efforts in giving the department a new image, good reputation and instilling discipline. Significantly, she ensured that suspects were not detained more than necessary. Under her watch as Officer-in-charge of Lagos SCID, the department also prosecuted hundreds of crime suspects and ensured culprits were brought to justice. Also, she showed dexterity at the FORCIB, Abuja State CIB, Lagos (as 2ic); Commandant PTSF, DCP, SCID, Bauchi, 2ic Area F, Area Commander, Area F; Deputy Commissioner of Police in-charge of DFA, Zone 2 Command (Lagos and Ogun States). She had her early exposure at the New York Police Defence Academy, United States of America. She attended Lagos Anglican Girls School, Broad Street, Lagos as well as Lagos Anglican Girls Grammar School, Surulere, Lagos. Some of her career courses include Advance Detective Course, PSC, Jos (2006); Protection of Civilians, COESPO Italy (2012); Training for Police Women on Gender-Based Violence, UNFRA/LS (2015). Her husband, Kehinde while he was an Assistant Commissioner of Police, was the Commander of Area ‘H’ Police Area Command (Lagos State Police Command). He also once served as the DCP in charge of operations in Oyo State. 