 A former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, has described Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State as a candidate that will make an excellent president Nigeria. He also added that the Kogi governor will appeal to young Nigerians. Fani-Kayode expressed these views on Friday during a live television programme. The former minister stated categorically that Bello will defeat former vice president Atiku Abubakar in the 2023 presidential election if the duo contested. “I believe Governor Yahaya Bello. I believe that he will be an excellent president. I believe he will appeal to millions of young people in this country and that this is a change in the dynamics we are giving power to a younger person. That is just my view though,” he said. Asked if Bello (as APC candidate) can defeat Atiku of the PDP in the poll, the former minister said the Kogi governor would defeat the former vice-president squarely. “Why not? He (referring to Bello) will defeat him (referring to Atiku) hands down,” he said. The former minister added only Bala Mohammed, governor of Bauchi and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, his Enugu counterparts from the PDP can provide a “strong fight” against the APC in the 2023 presidential election. Fani-Kayode asked Mohammed to join the APC to contest the ruling party’s presidential ticket if the PDP denied him slot. “There are two people that will provide a very strong fight against the APC within the ranks of the PDP, only two. The first is Bala Mohammed, who I have immense respect for,” he added. “But I doubt they have the presence of mind to give him the ticket in fact they will make sure he does not get the ticket or he should come to APC and try his luck. “And Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu state who is not even on your list (a list of 2023 presidential hopefuls put together by Channels Television) and he is one of the brightest and the best of them all, the most effective. They are two people that would provide a good fight. “There is nobody else on that list, particularly Atiku Abubakar that can stand against anybody With months to the 2023 election, there have been speculations on who will emerge party flag bearers of the two major political parties — All Progressives Congress and Peoples Democratic Party. In the 2019 election, Atiku came second after polling 11,262,978 votes as the winner of the election — President Muhammadu Buhari — polled 15,191,847 votes. 