 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI The Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, has condemned the recent hostility in Akaeze, Ivo Local Government Area of the state, describing it as criminal and ungodly. The personnel of Ebubeagu Security Outfit in the state were also being accused of complicity in the hostility. Umahi, during an on-the-spot visit to Akaeze to assess the level of the carnage, frowned on what he described as the needles reaction which culminated to the burning of the Akaeze Police Station and the property of the Chairman of Ivo Local Government Area by rampaging youths, among others. He called for the prompt arrest and prosecution of those involved in the violence captured in a viral video on social media where some axe-wielding men resulted to brutality. The governor said, “I feel so sad over the incidences that happened in this place. In the first place, I condemn the viral video where somebody was using an axe on a fellow human being. My position is that life is sacred and all those that did that, whether they are in government, whether they are Ebubeagu, or whether they are stakeholders, must be prosecuted in court of competent jurisdiction. “There is no reason that should warrant anybody to take law into their hands. At the end of time, we are going to be accountable to God. “It is important to note that Ebubeagu is a security outfit backed by law and it will not be disbanded but any Ebubeagu member that violates the law will go in for it. “The law on Ebubeagu is very clear, just like there are bad elements in other security forces and within the society. There may be bad eggs in Ebubeagu but my position is that the bad eggs in Ebubeagu must be identified and removed. Ebubeagu is doing very beautiful work; they are helping the police, they are helping the Army. “We have a procedure, when you have the right within the limit of the law to arrest people, you have to hand them over to the Police immediately and it stops there. You are not even permitted to torture them not to talk of killing them, but you have the right of self-defense and the evidence must be there and overwhelming. What happened here did not make me happy. “Two wrongs must never make a right. The people that masterminded this must be arrested and prosecuted, I am not the governor of one party; I am the governor of all parties. Most importantly, I am accountable to God.” While ordering the demobilization of all gun-carrying non-security persons in the state, the governor urged the youth in the state to shun violence and all forms of criminalities. 