 Egg supply business also known as egg distribution business involves the sourcing and supply of eggs to individuals, supermarkets, hotels, shops and companies. It is a very lucrative business that anyone can start to make massive profit. The business is not very capital intensive but very rewarding. Without a doubt, the poultry business is one of the most lucrative businesses to start anywhere in Nigeria and Africa. And rearing chickens is king of the kind. One thing that makes the poultry business so lucrative is eggs. Because of its nutritional value and demand, supplying and distributions of eggs is a lucrative business with manifold profits in Nigeria and beyond. Why egg supply business is very lucrative The population of egg consumers is very large and wide in variety, ranging from everyday people to companies, hotels and many other establishments of which restaurants and events are part of it. Eggs are not just needed for eating alone.  Eggs are also used in most baked snacks during manufacturing processes
To cap it all up, eggs are the number one source of protein for humans. There have been many researches where scientists have concluded that consumption of eggs plays a big part in human health. The egg supply market is worth billions of Naira in Nigeria. And everyone who ventures into it has a good opportunity to tap into these billions. As a result of this, we can say venturing into egg production and distribution business is a great move to make. What is egg supply business all about? It is about sharing eggs produced from poultry to the buyers daily, sometimes weekly, monthly depending on the needs of the buyers. The supply of eggs will depend on demand. In most cases, customers usually order eggs in hundreds, some thousands but it majorly depends on the financial capacity of the customers. However, it is important we discuss the opportunity available in the egg distribution business. The opportunities in the egg distribution business 1. Common Supplies
Eggs are known to be supplied to shops or supermarkets, restaurants, bakeries and cosmetics industries on a daily basis, weekly or perhaps monthly wholesale. With this, the business owner is given the opportunity to make immense income on a daily basis, weekly, and monthly. Almost everyone eats eggs. In fact, scientists recommend eating at least one egg a day 2. Industrial supply
Eggs are utilised in some companies for the purpose of industrial productions such as glue and some other products. In lieu of this, these industries need a constant supply of eggs for them to sustain their legacy and activities. Therefore, they order for large egg supplies, of which you can write proposals to them after setting up your poultry for egg production. 3. Cosmetics
Some cosmetics establishments also utilise the efficiency of eggs to make their various skin products. 4. Fitness
In the fitness centre, they do encourage their clients to take in a lot of eggs so that it can help them to boost their protein intake and by doing that, they can get to build their bodies and gain considerable muscle mass. You could reach out to gym centres out there and by doing so, you will get more clients for your egg supply business. The advantages of egg supply business
1.  Easy to establish
2.  It does not cost a fortune to start
3.  You do not need any skills or qualification to enter the egg supply business
4.  It can bring daily and weekly non-stop income How to start egg supply business
Follow these steps to start egg supply business:
1.  Locate a reliable poultry farm that produce eggs in large quantities
The first step is to locate a dependable poultry farm that can easily supply you large quantities of eggs anytime you need it. Make sure you locate a well-organised farm. You should be connected to more than one farm. Have at least two to avoid scarcity.
Speak with them and have agreement on prices and all details necessary. 2.  Acquire a car
Transporting eggs from one place to another in large quantities requires you to have a car. It can be an old car but movable. You could also work out a rental agreement with someone with a car or bus whenever you have supply to make.
It is not advisable to use public transportation to move your eggs. Because eggs are very sensitive and could break when not handled with care. 3.  Set up a storage facility
You may need to set up an adequate storage facility for the eggs. Once you move them from the farm, a place you keep them for distribution. Where customers can come and pick up or sight see. 4.  Acquire tools
Once you have a place ready. You will need to acquire tools that will help you run your egg supply business. The most important tools are crates where you keep the egg. It is very important and essential. Without it the eggs might break and you lose. 5.  Identify and reach out to your target market
You will need to locate your target market where you are and each out to them. This is where  your business will thrive. Depending on where you are, you should be looking at: Hotels, shops, schools, restaurants, industries that make use of eggs, gyms and more.
Get to meet them, introduce yourself and tell them about your business. SOURCE@makemoney.ng 