Director of Public Affairs, Northern Elders Forum, Hakeem Baba Ahmed, in this interview with MAYOWA SAMUEL, examined the implications of the recent pronouncements by the Indigenous People of Biafra to ban the sale and consumption of cows owned by the Fulani from April 2022. He also shared his thoughts on the designation of bandits as terrorists. Excerpts:  In its New Year message to the people of the South East, the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) banned the sale of cows owned by the Fulani and the consumption of beef at ceremonies and festivals. In retaliation, the Coalition of Northern Groups also called for the total boycott of all businesses, goods and services operated by the Igbo in Northern Nigeria. The Amalgamation of Northern Traders in Cattle, Grains and Vegetables said they were prepared to comply with IPOB’s directive and boycott all markets in the South East. What’s the position of the Northern Elder’s Forum regarding these threats? The Northern Elders Forum is carefully studying this new development, particularly, after some Igbo elders appealed to the president that Nnamdi Kanu should be released to them and gave assurances that he was not going to continue with these illegal and dangerous activities. We do have positions and we’ve made it clear first of all, that we do not believe that the judicial process should be truncated. Nnamdi Kanu should go through the full requirements of the judicial process. Now, with the recent statement that IPOB put out, our concern has been vindicated. IPOB is a lot more than Nnamdi Kanu, it represents a major existential threat to the country. Any group or individual that will threaten the economic welfare or livelihood of a particular identified group is a threat to this country. The Coalition of Northern Groups is now saying that northerners should boycott Igbo goods and services in the North, this is precisely the kind of thing that we should try to avoid by the kind of reckless statements that are being released by IPOB. Even the Amalgamation of Northern Traders in Cattle, Grains and Vegetables has told their members not to take their goods to the South East… This is exactly what we are trying to prevent. A handful of people, no matter what kind of support they enjoy, should not threaten the security, livelihood and economic welfare of other Nigerians. This is not politics anymore but it is a serious threat to the country and it must be taken as that. They cannot, but if they do that, this is the kind of thing that you will see going on. This is very dangerous, they are putting this country 50, 60 years behind. This is what happens when IPOB makes these kinds of statements and there is a reaction from another part of the country. The cumulative effect here is that all Nigerians are put in danger. This is not acceptable and we condemn the statement by IPOB completely and totally. For the issue regarding their banning of schools in the South East from singing the National Anthem when the five states in the region are part of Nigeria, under any circumstance, nobody should take IPOB seriously. The final point I need to make is that there is a need for the real Igbo leadership to stand up and be seen by Nigerians. The problem for a lot of the Igbo leadership is that they are fractured and very many of them have opinions that are very responsible and very constructive opinions on how we should deal with the issue of IPOB and ESN and the relationship between the South East and the rest of Nigeria but when they don’t speak up, they yield the political ground to groups like IPOB. We don’t hear about them, we don’t hear what they say. Where are the governors? Where is Ohanaeze? It damages the aspirations of the Igbos. They make demands in the name of equity, justice and fairness but how do you get equity, justice and fairness when you deny it from others? How do you get equity, justice and fairness in wider Nigeria, when you go on to say don’t buy this from these people? How can Nigerians trust an Igbo president or the Igbo people to lead this country? They have very good people, they have very good Igbo people who have leadership qualities but they allow IPOB and these kinds of groups to damage their image and this is ultimately self-destructive. So, we in the North are not scared but we are very worried that there appears to be an absence of a solid front of Igbo leaders and elders to deal with the issue of IPOB and to assure the rest of Nigerians that the Igbo want to live in peace with other Nigerians; they want what they are entitled to, and they don’t have to threaten the rest of Nigeria to get it. The Federal Government has finally designated bandits as terrorists. This is one of the things many have consistently been demanding, including the NEF. Now that the government has done this, what’s the reaction of the NEF? We hope that the gazetting of bandits and kidnappers as terrorists will have a real tangible effect on the activities of these people who are causing havoc on our lives, particularly, in the North. We hope this is not just an informal process that will not translate into real activity. So, we support this but we also support any move that tries to reduce the number of people who are being pushed into banditry either through incompetence or insensitivity. The activities of a lot of people who are now assuming responsibilities to fight anybody who is Fulani is not helping the situation at all and the states need to be very careful. So, the Nigerian government needs to be very sensitive about this. We can solve this problem, one is through the legal process and then to fight the people who are fighting our people in a manner that defeats them but we need to also recognize the fact that the tendency to term all Fulanis as criminals must be resisted. Those who are picking on Fulanis and picking on all of them as criminals should stop. 