 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI The International Federation of Women Lawyers, Ebonyi State chapter, said it recorded a total of 50 rape cases and 55 gender based violence incidents in 2021. The state Chairman of FIDA, Grace Iheanacho-Chima, who said that of the 50 rape cases, 20 minors were defiled during the year under review, advised parents, especially mothers to spread out their protective shields wider on their children and wards with a view to reducing the high spate of abuses in the current year. She called for the establishment of special courts for the trial of gender-based violence suspects in order to serve as a deterrent to others. She also called for the establishment of a befitting safe-home for survivors. Iheanacho-Chima, in an exclusive interview with The Point in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State capital, stated that the federation in the year under review secured eight court judgments in favour of both the rape and the GBV victims in the state. She advised the society to break the culture of silence in the face of molestation of any kind by reporting to FIDA for free prosecution. The FIDA chairman enjoined stakeholders in the justice delivery sector, political leaders, royal fathers, religious leaders and other well-meaning Nigerians to join hands in the fight against gender-based violence. She emphasised that creation of Gender-Based Violence court would not only speed up the justice system but would ensure that victims of gender based violence get redressal as soon as possible. She called for end to violence against women and children, stressing that women and children are both special and critical segment of society, deserving care and a sense of belonging, rather than abuses. She further called on parents and guardians to take full responsibility of their children to avoid being abused as always witnessed during yuletide, and encouraged all and sundry not to hesitate to report any form of violence meted against women and children to appropriate authorities for prompt action. “In 2021, just like other years, members of FIDA, Ebonyi State were up and doing and speaking for the voiceless. We secured 8 court judgements in favour of victims of both rape and GBV. Our major problem in the course of the job is compromise by victims’ families. Most times, family members of victims decide to settle with perpetrators out of court at the detriment of the underage victims. “We call on the government for strict implementation of Child Rights Law and other laws in protection of children in the state if they are actually leaders of our tomorrow. Children and women are always vulnerable, hence, the need to stop all inequality based on gender, sex, religion, race. “Imposed inequality on human dignity is the root of all human rights violations. We want our people to say no to gender-based violence, rape/defilement, extra judicial killing, brutality by law enforcement agents and others, wife battery, wardrobe discrimination against women in work places, sexual harassment, female disinheritance, female genital mutilation/cutting, early marriage, child labour, child trafficking, child neglect, and harmful widowhood/traditional practices. “Parents, especially mothers should spread out their protective shields on their children. They should say no bluntly to the above vices and abuses. Doing this is a guarantee to a better 2022. If you see something, always say something,” Iheanacho-Chima stressed. 