 President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday inaugurated over 200 Buffalo branded operational vehicles and other security hardware procured by the Federal Government, through the Nigeria Police Trust Fund for the Nigeria Police. Inaugurating the vehicles and other security hardware in Abuja, Buhari described the provision of the equipment as part of the ongoing reformation of the Nigeria Police Force. The President, represented by the Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Dingyadi, said that the idea was to aid policing in Nigeria, through provision of modern infrastructure. Buhari commended the Board of Trustees, Management and Staff of the NPTF for meticulously and meritoriously completing the projects, marking the commencement of the inauguration of numerous interventions. He said the interventions, targeted at equipping; training and modernisation of policing infrastructure, were in line with the Federal Government’s mandates of deepening security and safety nationwide. The president commended the initiative to select the Buffalo trucks brand, adjudged as rugged and capable of withstanding varied geographical terrains and atmospheric conditions. “There is no gain saying that the establishment of the NPTF is very timely and apt, as it came at a time when government is determined more than ever, to holistically address the various security challenges facing the country. “Achieving the overall objectives of the Trust Fund, should be internalized as the collective aspiration of all Nigerians to bridge the funding gap in policing. “This can be achieved by providing the Police with required operational tools, equipment, training and re-training of personnel, as well as motivation of officers and men through improved welfare,” he said. He reiterated the commitment of the Federal Government to adequately support the NPTF with a view to meet its mandate and attain the expectations of the Nigeria Police Force and Nigerians in general. Buhari called on officers and men of the Nigeria Police to continue to put in their best in the discharge of their duties and adopt a holistic internal security mechanism to boost the operations of the Nigeria Police Force. The president expressed optimism that the Inspector General of Police and his Management Team would commit officers and men of the Force, to reciprocate government’s efforts, through judicious and effective use of the facilities. He warned that government would not condone any acts of abuse and mishandling of the facilities provided from very limited resources. “Government is aware of your numerous operational constraints and will continue to do its best to address these challenges. “The recent Federal Executive Council’s approval of an enhanced salaries package and other allowances for the Nigeria Police further affirms Mr. President’s commitment to enhance policing, and deserves commendations from well-meaning Nigerians,” he added. In his remark, Usman Baba, the I-G commended the Federal Government for its firm determination to pursue one of its three cardinal objectives of securing lives and property. According to him, it is in realisation of this that the actualisation of the NPTF was achieved under President Buhari’s leadership. He said the fund was, among others, set up to provide financial, logistics and other critical interventions for the Nigeria Police Force. “I have no doubt in my mind that the NPTF is well-positioned to guarantee the nation, a well-equipped, well-trained, and well-motivated Nigeria Police Force that would be prompt and responsive to security challenges, in line with global standards. “The Trust Fund and the Nigeria Police Force have continued to maintain a cordial working relationship. Both Agencies have also been collaborating in the procurement planning processes for the implementation of approved budgetary appropriations. “This synergy has enabled both agencies, in conjunction with the Ministry of Police Affairs, to articulate appropriate needs assessment in the preparation of the budget proposals and interventions for operational efficiency and optimal service delivery,” he said. He said the collaboration was instrumental in the procurement and delivery of the operational assets being inaugurated. Baba said the items provided by the Trust Fund for the Nigeria Police Force were largely in line with requisite operational specifications, tested and found to be of standard that would enhance effective and efficient policing. Ahmad Sokoto, the Executive Secretary, NPTF said the items being inaugurated were 200 Buffalo Trucks, 1,300 units of personal protective gear, COVID-19 protection kits, drugs and medical equipment He said the choice of Buffalo Trucks was based on their ruggedness and ability to move fast on various terrains. NAN 