 A Chief Magistrates’ Court sitting in Kano, on Monday, ordered the remand of a 34-year-old school proprietor, Abdulmalik Tanko, in a correctional facility over the alleged murder of five-year-old Hanifa Abubakar. Hashimu Isyaku, 37, and Fatima Musa, 26, were ordered to be remanded alongside Tanko. The three accused persons, residing at Tudun Murtala Quarters, Kano, are standing trial on a four-count-charge of culpable homicide, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and concealing/keeping in confinement a kidnapped person. The Prosecutor and Attorney-General of Kano State, Musa Abdullahi-Lawan, told the court that on December 4, 2021, Tanko, proprietor of Nobel Kids Comprehensive College, Kano, conspired with the two others to kidnap Hanifa. “In the process, Tanko emotionally tortured and held Hanifa hostage in his house situated at Tudun Murtala Quarters, Kano, for six days,” he said. Abdullahi-Lawan alleged that on December 10, 2021, Tanko killed the 5-year-old girl with a rat poison, slaughtered her corpse and put her in a sack. “The second defendant, Isyaku, buried her in a shallow grave at the premises of Northwest Preparatory School situated at Kwanar Yan Ghana Tudun Murtala, Kano. “The defendants collected the sum of N100,000 ransom out of the N6 million earlier requested,” he said. The attorney-general also told the court that investigation into the matter had been completed, adding that the case diary had been received. “We will file a proper charge in the next seven days,” he said. The pleas of the accused persons were not taken. According to the prosecutor, the offences contravened the provision of sections 97, 274, 277 and 221 of the Penal Code. Chief Magistrate Muhammad Jibril subsequently ordered the remand of the defendants in a correctional centre. He adjourned the matter until February 2 for further mention. The attorney-general urged the people of Kano State to stay calm and let the law take its course. “We are a society of law abiding citizens. We intend to pursue the case rigorously within two months to finish with the prosecution,” Abdullahi-Lawan said. (NAN). 