 The All Progressives Congress national leader, Bola Tinubu, has described the death of Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Adetunji Saliu, Aje Ogungunniso 1, as a big loss for Oyo State and the Yoruba race. Also, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and Chairman, South West Governors Forum, has said that he received the news of the transition of Oba Saliu Adetunji, the Olubadan of Ibadan, with shock. In separate condolence messages by their media aides issued on Sunday, Tinubu and Akeredolu conveyed their condolences to Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, the government and people of  the state and in particular the family of the deceased and indigenes of Ibadanland. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the late Oba died in the early hours of Sunday at the University College Hospital, Ibadan, Oyo State at 93 years and his remains have been buried in accordance with Islamic rites. NAN reports that the death of the late Olubadan is coming barely three weeks after the demise of another foremost traditional ruler in the state, the Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi, Ajagungbade 111. Tinubu who expressed his sadness over the late king’s death however, said that he was extremely grateful to God that the deceased passed on at a ripe age of 93. The APC leader described the deceased as a sage and “a symbol of unruffled dignity” adding that he was humble, humane, mature, calm and decent, The former Lagos governor said this demise has robbed the state and ditto Nigeria of his wisdom and wise counsel. “He never withheld his deep insights and rich perspectives from those who sought his guidance. “This a big loss for the state and Yoruba race and it truly rankles as the death is coming shortly after the passing of another top ranking traditional ruler in Yorubaland and precisely in Oyo State. “Before he mounted the throne, Oba Adetunji had made his name as a successful businessman. “He was a music and entertainment promoter who contributed a lot to uplift the careers of many top musicians in the land, thus contributing his quota to the growth of our country’s economy. “On the throne, the late Olubadan worked assiduously for peace and stability of not only Ibadanland, Oyo State and Yorubaland, but also the entire country. “He superintended over the ancient city with even-handedness. I had a close personal relationship with Kabiyesi and I will deeply miss him. My condolences to his family, particularly the oloris, mogajis and princes. “May God Almighty comfort them and may the gentle soul of Oba Adetunji rest in perfect peace,” Tinubu prayed. In his condolence message, Akeredolu said in spite of Oba Adetunji’s old age, he was a valuable asset, not only to the people of Ibadan but to the entire Yoruba race. The governor said that the late traditional ruler did his best for the development of Ibadanland. “Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji was, undoubtedly, committed to the progress and peace of Ibadanland. He was a traditional ruler whose reign witnessed tremendous development in Ibadanland. “Yet, his transition is another tragedy for us in Yoruba land. This loss, coming shortly after the demise of Soun of Ogbomoso, is a big blow dealt on our traditional stool in Yoruba land “As a people with culture and tradition, we believe that Oba Adetunji has gone to be with his forefathers. He has played his part and only his legacies will forever speak for him. “He will be remembered for his firm stands. His principles and love for his people will be his enduring legacies. He was royalty with a difference,” the governor said. Akeredolu condoled with the monarch’s immediate family, while praying that God would give them the fortitude to bear the loss. The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ojaja II and Bishop Wale Oke, have also extolled the virtues of the late Oba Adetunji. Ogunwusi, in a statement by his Director of Media and Public Affairs, Moses Olafare, on Sunday in Ile-Ife, described the late Oba Saliu as a great traditional ruler. The Ooni said that the reign of the late Olubadan would forever be remembered for the tremendous development he brought to Ibadanland, in particular and Nigeria at large. “Kabiyesi Olubadan did not let the features of old age hold him back during his lifetime as he was active in projects, programmes, plans and other activities toward making life better for his subjects. “That is why his return home would be missed greatly by all. “Though, it is a tough way to start the year, we must submit to the will of the Almighty Olodumare for the life of Oba Adetunji, which was well spent serving humanity. “Our thoughts and prayers in the House of Oduduwa are with natives as well as residents of the ancient city of Ibadan and the entire Oduduwa race globally at this material time,” the traditional ruler said. The Ooni had earlier in December described the late Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Oladunni Oyewumi Ajagungbade III and the Olowu of Owu, Oba Adegboyega Dosunmu, who recently joined their ancestors as traditional rulers who added values to the larger House of Oduduwa. He said that Soun, Olowu and Olubadan led administrations of growth and all round development in their respective domains during their reigns. Ogunwusi, who is the Co-Chairman, National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria, added that history would forever be kind to them across the Oduduwa race. In a related development, Oke, who is also the President, The Sword of the Spirit Ministries, described Oba Adetunji, as a peace loving traditional ruler, whose reign would always be remembered for good. Oke, while commiserating with the people of the ancient city of Ibadanland, Oyo State Government and the nation as a whole, said that the traditional ruler would be greatly missed for his quality contributions to humanity. “Late Oba Adetunji was a great monarch who loved his people and worked relentlessly for the upliftment of his community, the state and the nation as a whole. His demise, no doubt, is a great loss to all,” he said. The cleric, who is also the National President, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, said that the era of the late oba ushered in progress, stability and peace to Ibadanland, its environs, the state and the country. He said that the legacy of the good works of the late Oba Adetunji must not be allowed to die in whatever form, adding that his legacies and good memories must be kept alive for the generations to come. Oke prayed that God should continue to uphold the family, the ancient town, Oyo State and the country in general. The Bishop prayed that God would grant them the fortitude to bear the loss of the traditional ruler to the cold hands of death. The family of the late former Governor Abiola Ajimobi and Tolulope Akande-Sadipe (APC-Oluyole) have described the death of Oba Adetunji as shocking and unbelievable. In a statement signed by Idris Abiola-Ajimobi, the family described the 93-year-old traditional ruler as a principled and morally upright Oba, whose fatherly advice would be missed. “Just within the span of one month, Oyo State lost three highly revered Obas to the cold hands of death. “This is really shocking and unbelievable. “First, it was the Soun of Ogbomosoland, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi, followed by the Asigangan of Igangan, Oba Lasisi Adeoye and now the Olubadan of Ibadanland. “We have lost another highly successful businessman and good father to us all. “My heartfelt sympathies to the Oyo State Council of Obas and particularly, to the Olubadan-in-Council for this great loss,’’ Abiola-Ajimobi said on behalf of the family. He commiserated with the good people of Ibadanland and Oyo State in general, on the sad incident in the New Year. Abiola-Ajimobi prayed for the repose of the soul of the late Olubadan and for Allah to grant him Al-Jannah Firdaos. Also, Akande-Sadipe, in a statement signed by her Media Aide, Olamilekan Olusada, described the late Oba Adetunji as a brave and courageous leader. Akande-Sadipe, who is the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora Matters, said the late Oba was a successful businessman and a first-class traditional ruler. She said that the late Oba led his people with utmost diligence and unassuming dedication. The lawmaker commended the late traditional ruler for his strong adherence for peace, progress and development. Akande-Sadipe said that the late traditional ruler would long be remembered in the annals of Ibadan and Oyo State for being an exemplar in virtually all facets of life. “The late oba was a credible leader, whose reign as Olubadan, united his people, and witnessed massive development in the state. “Kabiyesi lived a very value- added and meaningful life ascending the throne in 2016. “On behalf of my constituency, I extend my condolences to the good people of Ibadanland, the Olubadan-in-Council, and the immediate family members of the late Oba Adetunji,’’ she said. The chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora Matters, prayed that God would repose the soul of the departed traditional ruler and comfort the family, as well as the good people of Ibadan. A former Governor of Oyo State, Adebayo Alao-Akala and the Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare, have also joined other prominent Nigerians in mourning the death of Oba Adetunji. The duo in their separate condolence messages made available to newsmen on Sunday in Ibadan, described the traditional ruler’s death as another unpleasant experience in the state. In his message, Alao-Akala said it was sad that the death of Oba Adetunji came while still mourning the demise of Oba Jimoh Oyewunmi, the Soun of Ogbomoso, who joined his ancestors about 22 days ago. The former governor said that the sudden departure of another foremost traditional ruler in Yorubaland was another unpleasant experience we have to learn to live with. “Baba Kabiyesi is a perfect example of a man of courage and resilience who stood by what he believed in, damning all consequences. “Kabiyesi’s reign was a blessing to Ibadanland and Oyo State in general, and he will be sorely missed,’’ he said. Alao-Akala prayed to God Almighty to grant him al-jannah fridaos and console the Adetunji Family, the good people of Oyo State, as well as Nigeria at large. Also, Dare in his message, described the late traditional ruler as a peace-loving royal father who would be sorely missed at this time of national life. “Before his ascension to the throne, he was a successful businessman. “The country has lost a wise patriot whose fatherly advice, interventions played huge roles in the peace and stability enjoyed in Oyo State and South-West, till this moment,” he said. The minister said that the late Oba Adetunji contributed immensely to the development of Ibadan, Oyo State and Nigeria as a whole. Dare condoled with the immediate family of Oba Adetunji, the people of Ibadan and the Oyo State Government. Also, Prince Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, a former Chairman, Association of Local Government of Nigeria in Oyo State, described Olubadan’s death as painful and devastating. Abass-Aleshinloye, in a statement he personally signed, described him as a highly respected traditional ruler who demonstrated immeasurable love for his subjects, both within and outside his domain. He said that Oba Adetunji lived a fulfilled life and would be remembered as a peace-loving Oba who served his people selflessly until his glorious exit. “He was a courageous man who protected the dignity of the Olubadan stool and ensured that the traditional institution of the country was well respected and honoured. “As mortals, we never want our elderly ones to die, but the Holy Books say that all souls must taste death. “So, we have to submit to the supreme will of the Almighty from whom we came and unto whom we shall all return. “He will be sorely missed for his wise counsel and his passion for unity,” the former ALGON chairman said. He urged children and the entire family of the late Oba to be consoled by the fact that the late traditional ruler lived a good life, imparted lives and left legacies of a good name. Abass-Aleshinloye, therefore, commiserated with the family, Ibadan indigenes, Oyo State Council of Obas and Oyo State Government on the passage of Oba Adetunji. He prayed that God would repose the soul of the departed traditional ruler and comfort the family as well as the people of Ibadanland. Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Adebo Ogundoyin, described the passage of the Oba as shocking and unbelievable. “Just within the space of one month, Oyo State lost three highly-revered Obas to the cold hands of death. This is really shocking and unbelievable. “First it was the Soun Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi (Ajagungbade III) the second was the Asigangan of Igangan, Oba Lasisi Olawuyi Adeoyo and now the Olubadan of Ibadan. “I commiserate with the good people of Ibadan and Oyo State in general on this sad incident in the New Year. “We have lost another highly successful businessman and a good father to us all. Our government has lost another very good friend and adviser. “My heartfelt sympathies to the Oyo State Traditional Council of Obas and particularly to the Olubadan-in-Council for this great loss,’’ he said. Ogundoyin stated that late Oba Adetunji was a principled and morally upright traditional ruler whose fatherly advice would be missed. “The reign of the late Olubadan had been relatively peaceful. “I  pray for the repose of the soul of the Olubadan and for Allah to grant him the best abode in Al-Jannah Firdaous,’’ he said. NAN. 