 Joshua Joseph, a student of Toyon High School, Ere, Ado-Odo, and his mother have reportedly instigated some thugs to attack some teachers in the school. The hired thugs, alongside the student and his mother, were said to have stormed the school in Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State, and beat three teachers to a pulp. They were reported to have inflicted injuries on the teachers. Report has it that Joseph had earlier been prevented from entering the classroom as a result of his hairstyle. One of his teachers, identified as Kabir Azeez, was said to have told the student to go and cut his hair before being allowed access into the classroom. Joshua, however, reportedly returned to the school with his mother and some thugs to attack the teachers. A source was quoted as saying that, “Three teachers were beaten. They are Abel Thomas, Kabir Azeez and Adegun Adekunle. The car that was destroyed belongs to Mr Jolayemi Jeromu. One of the thugs, Posu Baale, smashed the car’s windscreen.” Confirming the incident, the Vice-Principal, Mariam Onilogbo, said, “On Monday, we asked one of our students to go and cut his hair because the hair he brought to school was not acceptable. Yesterday, he came again with the same hair, so we told him to go and cut it. I collected his bag and told him to come back after cutting the hair. He came with two men and two women to accuse us. “I told them that if I could not tell him to cut his hair, all of them should leave my office. I gave them his bag and told them to go and teach him morals at home. They went out and I heard noise within the school promises. They beat the teachers. They smashed the windscreen of a car parked within the school. “Yesterday evening, they came to our quarters claiming that we stole their phone. They almost attacked us. We told them that their phone is not with us. They came to meet us again this morning, thank God no one was attacked.” The Vice-Principal added that the mother and one of the thugs had been arrested by the police. This came barely two weeks after parents in the state signed an undertaking against unruly behaviours by the students as the state government mandated. 