 Former Deputy Governor of Osun State, Sen. Iyiola Omisore, has paid the sum of N3.3 million to offset hospitals bills of 88 patients who were unable to pay for their treatments at the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, Ile-Ife. Prof. Victor Adetiloye, Chief Medical Director, OAUTHC, made the disclosure after Omisore’s gestures in Ile-Ife on New Year’s Day. Omisore said, “God in His infinite mercies enabled me to do what I am doing, many have the wherewithal but are not considering of given back to the needy. “We read it in the Bible that David wanted to build House for God but it was Solomon who eventually did it. “As little as N1,000, N2,000, N3,000, N5,000, it goes a long way to assist many who are in need at any point in time. “I thank God that when I was privileged to appropriate; I do not forget my homestead and I appreciate the great work done by the Chief Medical Director, Director of Administration, and other management board of the hospital. They judiciously utilized the fund appropriated for the hospital. “Some CMDs are cooling off their feet in EFCC facilities now through misappropriation of funds,” Omisore stated. On the uniqueness of the event, Adetiloye said, “This is the 19th edition of what Sen. Iyiola Omisore is doing and he spent huge amount of money yearly on this event.” The CMD added that Omisore had touched many homes because patients that were freed came from all 36 states of the country. In his remarks, Jamiu Olawumi, Special Adviser on Education to Osun State Governor, said that hospitals were not tourist attractions but conditions brought the people there. Dignitaries at the event included Alhaji Jelili Adesiyan, former Minister of Police Affairs; Alhaji Bashiru Awotorebo, former Minister of State for Water Resources; and Folorunso Oladoyin, Osūn State Commissioner for Education. Others are Yemi Lawal,  Commissioner for Youth and Sports, former Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee, Prof. Rufus Adedoyin; Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee, Prof. A. M. Owojuyigbe; state parliamentarians and council chairmen among others. (NAN). 