 Operatives of the Ogun State police command have arrested seven members of a syndicate who specialize in hijacking trucks loaded with companies’ goods along Sagamu-Ijebu-Ode expressway. The suspects, Onyegbuchi Nwafor, Idakole Benjamin, Ibrahim Musa, Abolade Shola, Ikem Ejimofor, Adebayo Jamiu and Ayeye Edwin were arrested following a distress call received at the Odogbolu divisional headquarters on December 8, 2021, at about 3:00 am that a gang of armed  robbers had blocked the expressway and hijacked a truck loaded with Blue Band products of Unilever Nigeria Limited. According to the Ogun State Command’s spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, the robbers, overpowered the driver and the motor-boy, took them to the bush and tied them down before taking away the truck. On the strength of the distress call, the Divisional Police Officer, Odogbolu Division, Superintendent of Police,  Awoniyi Adekunle, quickly led his patrol team to the scene, but the hoodlums had escaped before their arrival. “They started tracing the hoodlums based on the description of the hijacked truck. Their efforts paid-off when the truck was sighted at Nairaland area of the expressway moving towards Ijebu-Ode road.
They were given a hot chase and three amongst the hoodlums namely, Musa Ibrahim ‘m’, Shola Abolade ‘m’ and Edwin Ayeye ‘m’ were arrested, while others escaped in a Honda space wagon car. “In the morning of the same day, the escaped ones contacted a lawyer and informed him that the police had unlawfully arrested some of their friends. They engaged the service of the lawyer to solicit for their release from police custody. On getting to the office of the DPO, the lawyer was told to produce those who briefed him about the case before those in police custody can be released.
 “The lawyer there and then called them to come as the case is about to be settled.  The duo of Nwafor Onyebuchi and Idakole Benjamin who was later identified as dismissed police sergeant then came around and they were subsequently arrested by the DPO and his men.”
On interrogation, Oyeyemi explained that the suspects confessed to being the ones that blocked the expressway and hijacked the Blue Band loaded truck from the driver after tying down the driver and his motor-boy.
He said the suspects were transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation on the order of the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole. “On getting to the SCIID, the suspects after thorough investigation confessed that they have so far hijacked four trucks loaded with different types of goods, such as Pampers, Nutri C drinks, Blue band and Honeywell Flour. The value of the hijacked goods so far is estimated to be N25,688,000.
“They confessed further that they have a readymade buyer, in one Alhaji Jamiu who lived in Kwara State. The said Alhaji Jamiu was traced to Erin-Ile in Kwara State where he was promptly arrested.
“Their major receiver and financier, Ikem Ejimofor was traced to Jakande Estate, in Lagos where he was also arrested.
While Alhaji Jamiu confessed that it was his own truck the suspects used in blocking the road when the last truck was hijacked, Ikem Ejimofor on his part confessed being the receiver of all the robbed goods which he bought at a very ridiculous price.
“Meanwhile, the Commissioner of police, Lanre Bankole who commended his men for their painstaking investigation has directed that the suspect must be arraigned in court without delay,” Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police added. 