 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL Insinuations in the public space that the formal defection to the People’s Democratic Party of the Lagos4Lagos Movement, a splinter group within the Lagos State All Progressive Congress, was stalled by the absences of PDP governors and major party stakeholders, is false. Speaking with The Point, the movement’s Head of Communication and Strategy, Seun Soyinka, clarified that the postponement of the official declaration was yet again to give room for more people who later indicated interest to attend the event. Recall that the Movement, led by  Olajide Adeniran, popularly known as Jandor, had initially scheduled the defection for December 18, 2021, but was shifted to January 11, 2022, reportedly due to the absence of some PDP governors who wanted to attend. One of the group’s leaders, Sunday Ajayi, in an interview with newsmen confirmed the development saying, “We have shifted the event to January 11, 2022 due to the absence of some PDP governors that want to attend.” Yet again, the event still didn’t hold and was postponed to January 21, 2022, following an emergency meeting with the leader of the party in the South-West, Seyi Makinde. Adediran in a statement by the group’s Press Secretary, Kazeem Bakare, after the emergency meeting, said, “Following growing demand by major stakeholders in the PDP, especially the governors to be part of Abdul–Azeez Adediran (Jandor) formal declaration, the much-anticipated event earlier scheduled for January 11 has been shifted to January 21. “The new date became imperative following an emergency meeting with the leader of the party in Southwest, Seyi Makinde, who is equally the Governor of Oyo State on Sunday, January 10. “Governor Makinde expressed the interest of his colleague governors, federal lawmakers and other major stakeholders who have signified readiness to be part of the grand event.” However, Soyinka said, “We were wrong. What happened was that we were planning to have an event and we were expanding our guest list. Some other people have shown interest and we had to accommodate them, it wasn’t as if their presence stalled it. “The first one, we had planned to host maybe two governors, but the leader of the party in the South-West said some other people wanted to join. “Again, a lot more of those leaders beyond the South West region are expressing interest to join and that’s what we are accommodating. That’s what necessitated the whole move and nothing more,” he noted. Expressing certainty that the defection will lead the main opposition to victory in Lagos come 2023, Soyinka noted that regardless of how long the ruling party has been in power in the state, it will come to an end. “Longevity doesn’t matter, there is always a time when an era comes to an end. Even monarchies come to an end,” he added. Soyinka further stated that the movement is not worried about allegations against Bode George as being behind the disaffection in the party. “Not at all, because there are consultations and meetings going on within the party that point to only one direction, which is how to win Lagos, come 2023. “There is absolutely no doubt in our minds, we are all working as a unit. Each of those factions is coming together to ensure that the party wins come 2023,” he assured. 