 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A 22-year-old lady, Ogechi Celine Duruoha, has been remanded at the Ilesa Correctional Centre for allegedly receiving certain amount of money from her boyfriend who allegedly stole mobile telephones and cash belonging to a final year student of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State. An Assistant Superintendent of Police, Abiodun Fagboyinbo, told a Chief Magistrate Court sitting in Osogbo that the young lady was tracked down in Lagos after her boyfriend, identified as Ben, transferred some amount of money to her. Fagboyinbo explained that Ben had, in November last year, approached one Onabanjo Jesutofunmi, a final year student of OAU under the pretense of selling weave on hair to her. In the process, he allegedly carted away her belongings, including phones and cash. He said that Ben, now at large, transferred some money to the account of Duruoha, adding that “We were able to track her down in Lagos through her account details. We then brought her to Osogbo to face charges.” Duruoha faced two count-charge bothering on conspiracy and stealing while the police were still on the trail of Ben. According to the charge, Duruoha and others at large, on November 19, 2021, in Osogbo, did conspire and steal items including an Iphone XP valued at N167,000; GTB ATM card with the sum of N30,000; Samsung Galaxy A20S valued at N60,000; a wallet containing N155,000 and an OAU student identity card. Fagboyinbo put the value of the stolen items at N412,000, property of one Onabanjo Jesutofunmi. He said that the defendant committed the offences contrary to and punishable under sections 516 and 390(9) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34 Volume II, Laws of Osun. Duruoha pleaded not guilty to the two-count-charge. The defence counsel, Oladipupo Tunbosun, prayed the court to grant the accused person bail, on the ground that “She is a victim of circumstance.” Chief Magistrate A. A. Adebayo granted the defendant bail in the sum of N2million with one surety in the same amount. He said that the surety must be resident within the jurisdiction of the court. In the alternative, Adebayo said that the surety may not be resident within the court’s jurisdiction but should deposit the sum of N2 million to the court. The magistrate urged Duruoha to facilitate the arrest of her fleeing boyfriend for him to face trial on the allegations. Duruoha was taken to the Ilesa Correctional Centre as she was unable to meet the bail condition. The matter was adjourned till January 26, 2022 for mention. 