 BY AKINWALE ABOLUWADE, IBADAN The Olubadan-in-Council has insisted that tradition would be followed in naming the next Olubadan of Ibadan, regardless of their elevation to the status of obas. A statement made available to journalists at the end of a two-hour meeting held at the residence of the Otun Olubadan, High Chief Lekan Balogun, on Monday, indicated that members of the Council would meet to announce the next Olubadan of Ibadan in line with tradition after the mourning of Oba Saliu Adetunji. However, the Osi Olubadan, High Chief Rashidi Ladoja, and two other members of the council were absent at the meeting. The statement read that “Following the demise of the 41st Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, on Sunday, members of the Olubadan-in-Council, on Monday, condoled with the Governor of Oyo State, Oluseyi Makinde; the people of Ibadan land and family members of the late monarch. “Rising from a two-hour closed-door meeting held at the Alarere residence of Otun Olubadan and the would-be successor to the throne, Senator Lekan Balogun, the Olubadan-in-Council described the deceased leader of the Council as an indefatigable ruler whose reign would be difficult to forget. “While praying for the repose of the soul of the departed king, the Council urged the bereaved family of the deceased to remain joyous and happy for the legacies of good reign left behind by their patriarch. “The Council reiterated that the historical and traditional succession plan to the throne of Olubadan remains sacrosanct, the elevation conferred on all the members of the Olubadan-in-Council as Royal Majesties notwithstanding. “Members of the Council were elevated to the Royal Majesties status by the previous administration in the state led by the late Governor Abiola Ajimobi and it became contentious. “Olubadan-in-Council said the elevation granted the members, who also serve as kingmakers, had not in anyway altered the age-long and enviable traditional succession plan to the Olubadan throne in Ibadan land. “There should be no controversy as to who becomes the next Olubadan amongst us as the previous elevation that made us Royal Majesties did not, in anyway, affect our respective offices in the Olubadan-in-Council and would not preclude any of us to mount the Olubadan throne whenever it is the person’s turn. “We are the kingmakers and we will do the needful at the appropriate time. For now, we are still all in the mourning mood of our departed father and leader in the Council, and we just want to assure the generality of our people both home and in the diaspora that there’s no cause for alarm.” 