Traditional council disowns late ruler  The Ogun State Police Command said last week that it has begun investigation into the killing of a traditional ruler, the Alagodo of Agodo in Ewekoro Local Government area of the state, Oba Ayinde Odetola, and three other persons. The assailants, who perpetrated the dastardly act on Monday, January 24, 2022 were said to have also burnt the remains of the monarch and other victims said to be his friends. It was gathered that Oba Odetola was killed and burnt beyond recognition immediately he drove into the community around 11 am on Monday last week. The Police Public Relations Officer for the State Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who said the command had swung into action, said the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole and the Special Adviser to the Governor on Security, Olusola Subair, had visited the town. Oyeyemi said the commissioner had directed the Homicide Section of the command to conduct thorough investigation into the incident, in order to bring the perpetrators to book. Residents of the town had deserted the community, out of fear. It was gathered that there had been a crisis on chieftaincy title of Alagodo over who occupies the seat between Ake and Owu people of Egbaland. The late monarch was said to be from the Ake section of Egba while there had been a crisis that an Ake person cannot administer the town mainly dominated by Owu people. It was learnt that a brother to the late monarch was gruesomely murdered not too long ago. The monarch was reportedly killed alongside his friends when they got to the town from an outing, according to a source. Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, has also condemned the violent killing of Oba Ayinde Odetola. The governor vowed to visit the full wrath of the law on the perpetrators of the assassination of the monarch and three of his aides. Declaring that his administration would not tolerate breach of peace and harmony being currently enjoyed in the state, Governor Abiodun, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, also directed the security agencies to immediately fish out the killers. In the statement, Governor Abiodun sent a stern warning  to those threatening the peace of the state, stressing that the incumbent administration would stop at nothing to deal decisively with the perpetrators by prosecuting and meting out the full wrath of the law on them. The governor, who described the incident as unfortunate, noted that politics, land and chieftaincy matters should not attract descent to self-help and killings. “Security of lives and property tops our responsibilities as a government and we will not allow people to take laws into their hands”, the governor was quoted as saying. He, however, commiserated with the family of the late monarch and the residents of Agodo town, assuring them that killers would not go unpunished for carrying out that heinous act. The Point learnt that the crisis began in Agodo after Odetola of Ake dynasty was elected as the traditional ruler of the town, a development the Owu people reportedly rejected, insisting that anybody from Ake cannot be their king. The situation took another dimension on Wednesday, when the Olowu- in-Council disassociated itself from the murder of Ayinde Odetola, saying his death has no relationship with any conflict between the Olowu and the Alake kingship. In a statement issued and signed by the Akogun Owu, Chief Isola Akinsipo for the Olowu in Council, the council declared that the insinuation was not only far from the truth but that the Agodo community which is presided over by a Baale has never at any time applied to the Olowu or Alake for the uplifting of their Baale to a Coronet as being misconstrued. The statement explained further that, “from time immemorial, Agodo village which has been a multi-clan community from Abeokuta had been in peace until some six years ago when some hoodlums besieged the environment to grab the community’s land. The statement reads, “The attention of Olowu-in-Council, Owu Kingdom, Abeokuta has been drawn to the trending media reports about the alleged murder of a traditional ruler in Agodo village in the Asa-Yobo area of Ewekoro Local Government of Ogun State and the insinuation that the incident was prompted by conflict between Owu and Ake people over the kingship in Agodo village. “The insinuation is far from the truth as on no occasion has the Agodo community, with a Baale in situ,  has contested or applied to Olowu or Alake  Egba for the uplifting of their Baale to Coronet.  From time immemorial, Agodo village which has been a multi-clan community from Abeokuta had been in peace until some six years ago when some hoodlums besieged the environment to grab the community’s land. “Reports available at our disposal in Owu Kingdom indicate the man who claimed to be Oba in Agodo village had been involved in land disputes with Agodo people which had caused bad blood among him, accompanied hoodlums and the Agodo community. In 2016, for instance, Agodo village was thrown into a turmoil following an alleged attempt by the man and some thugs to bury a corpse in Agodo village as a decoy to establish ancestry to the land. “By the directive of Olowu Kangunere, Oba Olusanya Adegboyega Dosunmu, Olowu of Owu, Oba Olufemi Ogunleye, Towulade Akinale was deployed to visit Agodo village and ensured there was peace. The report of a meditative meeting in Agodo, suing for peace and co-existence of the community was published in a news magazine, The Village Network, vol. 3 No 5 (2016), copy attached. “The Agodo community as at today, has denied their knowledge of any Oba in Agodo village as the purported Olu of Agodo has no physical presence or a palace in Agodo “Suffice it to call for enquiry as to who recommended him to both Egba Traditional Council and the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs.” 