 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Loyalists of a former Governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola and those of the incumbent Governor of the state, Gboyega Oyetola have traded blames over the shooting incident that happened in Osogbo on Monday. While Alhaji Rasaq Salinsile led faction of the All Progressives Congress in the state on Tuesday alleged that there was a plot by Oyetola to kill the Minister of Interior, the Special Adviser to Governor Oyetola on Political Affairs, Sunday Akere said there was no truth in the claim that Aregbesola wanted to be assassinated. Salinsile raised the alarm in a statement issued by its Publicity Secretary, Abiodun Agboola. He said, “We wish to inform the general public and security agencies in the state of a plot to kill the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, by default; by the state government sponsored political thugs. “We said by default because the plan was to lay ambush for the Minister’s entourage and dealt them massive attacks on his way to visit Iwo Federal Constituency today. (Tuesday). “The heinous plan which was hatched at the Okefia Government House last night was to ensure that the Iwo federal constituency meeting is stopped. “Sources revealed that the Governor Oyetola’s group were pained that the Minister escaped the assassination plot yesterday and are determined to make sure that he is hacked down today. “The leadership of the Hon. Rasaq Salinsile led All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State of Osun therefore called on security agencies in the state to be proactive in designing a foolproof measure that will bring to naught, the evil plot by the Governor Oyetola’s group. Reacting, the Special Adviser to Governor Gboyega Oyetola on Political Affairs, Hon Sunday Akere said there was no truth in the claim that Aregbesola wanted to be assassinated, adding that the Aregbesola’s loyalists raised false alarm so as to cause crisis in the state. He claimed they did that probably for them to get sympathy and to make the Federal Government declare a state of emergency on the state. He said: “There is no truth in the claim that Aregbesola wanted to be assassinated, what they are trying to do is to cause crisis in the state, probably for them to get sympathy and to make the Federal Government declare a state of emergency on the state. “The procession of Aregbesola in Osogbo was aired live on Facebook, there was nowhere anybody ambushed him. “Aregbesola came to town to terrorise the residents of the state, it is the game plan of Aregbesola which we all know. We know his orientation, thinking and plans in the state, we can’t be surprise by his actions, what he is trying to do is to intimidate the voters ahead of primary election of APC in Osun. “We want the Presidency to call him to order, Aregbesola is no more representing the interest of Osun People, but his personal interest. Most if his personal aide as a minister are not from Osun State. He will never succeed with his personal agendas in Osun State.” 