 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The newly inaugurated Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Abia State chapter, Kingsley Ononogbu, has been described as a blessing to the party both at the national and state levels. Spokesman of the party in the state, Tony Ezeala, said the former banker turned politician is all that the party needs to stabilize in the state as it works towards claiming the state from the ruling People’s Democratic Party. Ezeala told The Point in an interview in Abuja that the former bank chief was elected unopposed after the demise of the former chairman, Enyi Habor in a free, fair and credible election conducted by the Kolawole Babatunde-led special congress committee in Umuahia. “Dr. Ononogbu is a God sent to our party. He is a blessing, an asset the party needed at this point in time to take its rightful place in Abia State politics. “No genuine member of the party is kicking against his election. All the delegates at the congress were elated at his election and that has given us hope of taking over the state from the PDP.” The Abia State chapter publicity secretary noted that the APC has no crisis and maintained that the chairman has already brought his wealth of experience with the banking industry to bear. He disclosed that the Ononogbu-led executive has shown that it has the capacity to carry everybody along adding that the party will certainly take its rightful place in the state’s polity. “We in APC know that we don’t have any faction in our state. Those claiming they are factions of the party are only deceiving themselves. You cannot claim what you are not. As I speak with you, our party register is intact. Those who did not revalidate their membership when the national body of the party gave the opportunity are the ones crying and claiming that our party is in crisis. “No. Our party is not in crisis and there is no faction. I had it before because there is no property. That the national secretariat of the party ordered a revalidation of membership nationwide means that the former membership status had an issue and for anyone to claim to be a member of APC anywhere in Nigeria, that person must be a card carrying member of the revalidated membership. Those who were members before the revalidation but failed to revalidate their membership are legally nonmembers of our great party,” he said. Ononogbu, former General Manager, Risk Management of Spring Bank PLC was among the states’ chairmen inaugurated by the APC CECPC last Thursday at the Buhari House national secretariat of the party in Abuja. 