 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A Federal High Court sitting in Osogbo, on Wednesday dismissed the case brought before it by the aggrieved members of the Osun Chapter of All Progressives Congress who are loyal to the immediate past governor of the state and current Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola. The aggrieved party members, who operate under a caucus, The Osun Progressives, had approached the court to challenge the legality and validity of the recently conducted Ward Congress held on July 31, 2021 in the state. About 2,517 aggrieved members of the ruling party had alleged that they were denied participating in the ward congress despite fulfilling financial obligations. The lead counsel to APC and Governor Mai Mala-Buni,  Mubaraq Adekilekun had argued that the suit does not worth being heard because the litigants do not have the right to challenge the directive of the National Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Committee of the party. Also, counsel to Independent National Electoral Commission (6th respondent), Muyideen Adeoye had urged the court to reject the suit of the aggrieved members on January 26, 2022 stating that it lacked jurisdiction to entertain such matter because of the provisions of sections 251 of the 1999 constitution as amended and 87(9)of the electoral Act 2010 as amended. Ruling on wether the Federal High Court has jurisdiction to entertain the matter, the presiding Judge, Justice Emmanuel Ayoola, held that the plaintiffs’ cased was not covered by the law and thus can not be adjudicated by any competent court of law. Besides, Ayoola further held that the case was not properly brought in a representative capacity as those represented are imprecise, nebulous and indescribable and undeterminable. He said the suit brought before the court was strictly party affairs and that the court lacks jurisdiction on the matter. According to Ayoola, “The claims of the plaintiffs is to draw the court to the internal affairs of the party which is not enshrined in the constitution. “Supreme Court has said court can’t interfere with the internal issue of party, unless it falls under Section 87(9) of the Electoral Act. “The plaintiffs are not qualified to be called aspirants in the said congress. Aspirant is someone who participated in election. PDP v Timprale Silva. APC v Marafa. Plaintiff has no status under or right under S. 87(9). “The fact remains that this matter doesn’t relate to the nomination of any candidate, accordingly, the dispute does not fall under Section 87(8) of Electoral Act and Section 251 of the CFRN. The case of the plantiffs isn’t covered by the law and can’t be adjudicated by the court.” There was heavy security presence at the court premises as factional members of the ruling party thronged the court located along Osogbo/Gbongan road. As early as 8:30am, there were four police patrol vehicles stationed in front of the court while scores of armed security operatives were strategically placed to ensure order and peace during and after the delivery of the ruling. 