 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The Independent National Electoral Commission has declared the People’s Democratic Party winner of the Chairmanship election held on Saturday in the Abuja Municipal Area Council in the FCT Area Council election. Following the conclusion of the collation, the Returning Officer, Professor Sani Saka, declared the PDP candidate, Christopher Zakka, winner of the election, having polled 19,302, against the candidate of the APC, Murtala Karshi, who polled 13,240. There are 12 wards in AMAC, including Gwagwa, City Centre, Garki, Kabusa, Wuse, Gwarinpa, Jiwa, Gui, Karshi, Orozo, Karu and Nyanya. However, The PDP won 10 wards leaving the All Progressives Congress to claim victory in only Wuse and Karshi wards. At press time, the party was also declared winner of Bwari and Kuje Area Councils elections conducted the same day across the Federal Capital Territory. The candidate of the APC, Danladi Chiya, emerged the winner of Kwali area council Chairmanship election with a total of 7646 against his closest rival of the PDP, Haruna Pai, who scored 7345. The Returning Officer of the Election, Professor Wesley Daniel Nafarnda of University of Abuja made the declaration at the INEC office in Kwali Abuja. Danladi Chiya is the first since the inception of Democracy in Kwali area council to be reelected as an incumbent Chairman. In Kuje, Suleman Sabo of the PDP was declared the winner of the election. INEC Returning Officer for the Kuje Area Council, Sule Magaji, announced the final results on Sunday morning. He said Sabo, who is the council’s incumbent chairman, defeated five other candidates in each of the 10 wards in the area council. He polled a total of 13,301 votes to defeat his closest rival, Sarki Hamidu of the All Progressives Congress who secured 7,694 votes to emerge second. Similarly, in the Bwari Area Council, INEC declared Shekwogaza John Gabaya, of the PDP the winner of the election in the Council. The INEC Returning Officer for the Bwari Area Council Election, Prof. Amuche Madu, made the announcement on Sunday morning. Amuche said Gabaya who is the incumbent chairman of the council, polled a total of 13,045 votes to defeat his closest challenger and candidate of the APC, Haruna Shekwolo, who scored a total of 7,697 votes. However, in Gwagwalada Area Council, Jubrin Abubakar, candidate of the APC, was declared winner of the chairmanship election in the council. Abubakar polled 11,125 votes to defeat his closest rival, Mohammed Kassim of the PDP who polled 9,597 votes. The result of Abaji Area Council was being awaited as at press time. 