 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The General Overseer of Sufficient Grace and Truth Ministries (SGTM), Rehoboth Arena, Okinni, Osun State, Bishop Seun Adeoye has called on the leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) to immediately commence registration and licensing of all practicing clerics among its fold. He lamented the growing rate of fake pastors and called for urgent cleansing of churches in Nigeria. The cleric who also serves as the Lead Bishop, Worldwide Anglican Church (WAC), Nigeria and Spokesman, World Bishops’ Council (WBC), Africa, in a statement he issued in Osogbo, Monday, to mark the 70th birthday of one of the Church leaders in the state, Bishop Gideon Folahanmi, said quack pastors are dangerous to the Christendom and the country. He lamented that the social media platforms have given unhindered access and voices to many of the fake pastors where they “emit foul odors and vomit dirt from their bowels in the name of prophesies.” “Today, we are surrounded by the so called men and women of God declaring fake prophesies, spreading unbiblical doctrines, engaging in all manners of immoral behaviours and undertaking all sorts of rituals at the altar. “Although, these false pastors are in the minority but they are dangerous to the church and the society. They dupe in the name of God. They cause havocs to the Church and so much pains and shame to true Christians. They are worse than bandits. “These wolves should be identified, exposed and disgraced. These shafts must be separated from the wheat. They are not called by our Lord to preach the gospel but they see the Church as a means of livelihood to serve the gods of their bellies. “Therefore, these bad ones must give way to allow the gospel of Christ to flourish. CAN leaders should embark on urgent cleansing by registering and licensing all genuine men and women of God in its fold. By this, we can easily identify the evil ones and help deliver victims from their wickedness. “CAN leaders should be ready to come out boldly to deny anyone who engages in satanic activities and deregister any pastor whose behaviour is inimical to the well-being of the body of Christ. Enough of all these nonsenses in the name of God,” Adeoye stated. The clergyman praised Bishop Folahanmi for his service of over 50 years in the vineyard of God, saying testimonies from people about his life clearly indicated that the 70 years old cleric served God with all sincerity. 