 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Sons and daughters of the ancient city of Ile-Ife, Osun State on Thursday accused their neighbouring Modakeke indigenes of usurping the power of the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi and also grabbing their land. Addressing a press conference at Oba Okunade Memorial Hall, Enuwa, Ile-Ife, the indigenes, home and abroad, under the aegis of Great Ife Movement alleged that Ife land owners and farmers have been displaced from their land by Modakeke people. The President of the GIM,  Femi Oyeyinka said Modakeke people usurped the power of Ooni Ogunwusi by installing Baale’s and Chiefs in Ife sub-kingdoms where Baales and Chiefs had already been lawfully installed by the Ooni. Oyeyinka also claimed that some schools such as Modakeke High School, Put Lady High School and Urban Day Grammar School that bear ‘Ile-Ife’ after their names  as the territory of their location have been changed to bear ‘Modakeke.’ The GIM president who noted that the indigenes had the support of Ooni Ogunwusi to publicly lodge the complaints, however called on the state governor, Gboyega Oyetola, to intervene in the developments and refrain from being silent. “We are aware of the deep silence of His Excellency, Alhaji Adegboyega Oyetola, the governor of Osun State as well as the Osun State Government on this sensitive matter despite series of compliants that has been lodged. “We demand urgent intervention of Governor Oyetola to facilitate the return of the displaced Ife land owners/farmers to their respective villages and farms. Necessary steps should be taken by the Osun State Government to ensure that Oba’s, Baales and Chiefs lawfully appointed and installed by the Ooni of Ife in Ife North Local Government Area return to their respective domains without further delay. “Modakeke people must desist from usurping the power of the Ooni of Ife on Chieftaincy matters under whatever guise. Modakeke must refrain forthwith from their expansionist activities on Ifeland as Ifes are not prepared to cede an inch of their land to strangers. “Rather, they should with large heart and for peaceful co-existence, accept one of the recommendations of Osun State Council of Oba’s, chaired by H.R.H. Oba Ashiru Olatunbosun Tadese, the then Oluwo of Iwo, that “the Modakeke should however be made to recognise the hospitality of their host and therefore make deliberate efforts to sink their claims of independent entity and be fused into the Ife social, cultural and economic life. “The government should urgently and immediately set up a panel to review the past Judicial Recommendations and get those that has not been implemented to be effected immediately,” he said. 