 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Members of the All Progressives Congress in Osun State, loyal to the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, have protested the alleged withrawal of their names on the party membership register pasted at their voting centres. The affected members, who belong to The Osun Progressives (TOP) at Ward 15, in Oyan town, Odo-Otin North Local Government Area, demonstrated peacefully on Saturday morning while alleging that their names were removed from the party members register. Displaying their party identification cards, the protesters, mostly women, said they were disenfranchised because they wanted to vote Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, the preferred aspirant of Aregbesola. Speaking on behalf of the protesting APC members, the Welfare Officer of the party in the council area,Mrs Adesola Adegbite, said her name and other TOP members who were standing behind her, in a video, were expunged from the party membership register. “We are here at our voting centre at CMS ground, Ward 06 in Odo-Otin North Local Government Area. We are angry because when we arrived here this morning, we discovered that some people were pasting some papers on the wall, we were happy but when we approached the wall to check our names, we didn’t see any of our names there. Many of us have left the voting centre out of anger,”Adegbite said. Another protester, Mrs Afolabi Adenike, chairperson of Ward 15, Odo-Otin Local Government Area, confirmed that she did not see her name on the list made available. Recall that Adeoti had at a press conference on Friday, accused Governor Oyetola of hoarding the party membership register, which he said was against the rule of the game. But, the Secretary of the primary election committee, Senator Julius Ucha had during the party stakeholders’ meeting showed Adeoti the register after he requested for copies. Adeoti was also informed that the register wasn’t meant to be given to any aspirant. However, Sola Fasure, the media aide to Aregbesola claimed that TOP members names had been cleaned off from the voters’ register made available on Saturday morning. On his verified Facebook page, Fasure said, “reports from the field confirm that TOP members have been cleaned off the voters register made available just this morning in many wards.
We are compiling the list.” 