 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A governorship aspirant of the factional All Progressives Congress (APC) loyal to the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, in Osun State, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, on Tuesday said that the former Governor was compelled to support and promote Governor Gboyega Oyetola in the 2018 governorship election in the state by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. He said he minister and others in the party knew that Oyetola was a “bad product” which would not bear Osun any good, but decided to work for the governor’s emergence owing to his (Aregbesola’s) loyalty to Tinubu, said to be a blood relation of Oyetola. Adeoti was quoted as saying this in a statement issued by Abiodun Agboola, the factional Publicity Secretary of the party during the Iwo Federal Constituency tour to familiarise himself with the members of the party. Adeoti visited the constituency in the company of Aregbesola and other party stalwarts. The governorship aspirant said progressive politics in the state was near-dead before the arrival of Aregbesola in 2004. Adeoti noted that Aregbesola resuscitated the progressive politics after the Peoples Democratic Party had taken over the state. He stated that Aregbesola committed his life and resources to the resuscitation, maintenance and development of the progressive politics before, during and after he became the governorship candidate of the Action Congress (AC). Adeoti said Aregbesola does not deserve the humiliation and betrayal being experienced from Governor Oyetola and his followers. He said, “Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola resuscitated progressive politics in Osun. Anybody who was around in the state between 2004 and 2010 will know that Aregbesola was the harbinger of hope, confidence and power for the progressive party in the state. “Everybody will agree that if not for Aregbesola’s doggedness, modern politics and collective efforts, the PDP would have remained in power till date”. Speaking on the 2018 governorship primary of the party, Adeoti said Aregbesola was blindfolded by his loyalty to his boss to accept, promote and assiduously work “for a wrong and unpopular candidate.” He said, “Aregbesola was committed and loyal to his master in Lagos (Tinubu). That was why he supported an unpopular candidate in 2018. Aregbesola did not have a choice. He obeyed his master. “Unfortunately, those people (Oyetola and his followers) have bit the finger that fed them. Aregbesola does not deserve being humiliated by anybody.” Speaking at the event, the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, said he had stomached betrayal, hypocrisy and backstabing from the people he was serving wholeheartedly. Aregbesola said he decided to take a new path when he realised that the person he was committedly loyal to was out to destroy him and everything he stands for. He urged members of the party to vote for Adeoti in the coming Saturday governorship primary of the party. Leaders of the factional APC who included former speaker of Osun House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Najeem Salaam and factional Chairman of the party in the state, Hon. Rasak Salinsile, who were at the event urged members of the party to ensure that Adeoti emerge victorious in the primary. 