 In what appears to be a major endorsement of a youthful leadership in 2023, former Lagos State Governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, has called on Nigerian youths to ensure they get their PVCs ready for the next round of general elections. Ambode, in a rare development on Tuesday, literally set the social media on fire when he declared on his verified Twitter handle and Facebook page that “The youths are coming.” In the short message, the amiable former Governor thanked Lagosians for the support he received during his time in office and went on to call on the youths not to take ownership of PVCs for granted. The short message is regarded as a sharp rejection of the spirit of imposition and godfatherism and also as a wake-up call on the youths to stand up and be counted in shaping the future of their nation and never to undermine participatory politics. Ambode in a passionate tone, tasked the youths to “Go get your Permanent Voters Card (PVC) ready.”  He followed it up with a clincher in a rather declarative tone, “Your future is now.” Political observers see this statement by Ambode as not only an inspiration but a massive boost to INEC advocatory policies and a clarion call for a departure from the old political ways characterized by rigging. But more importantly, it represents a shift from what appears to be the tendency to always recruit the aged for very crucial, tasking and sensitive leadership positions in Nigeria. His full statement reads, “After all we have been through, God has been faithful. Thank you for the overwhelming endorsement of our modest contributions to the growth of Lagos. It can only get better for Lagos, and indeed Nigeria. “The youths are coming. “The power is in their hands. Go and get your Permanent Voters Card (PVC) ready. “Your future is now.” Ambode was denied the opportunity of a second term in office as governor of Lagos State in one of the most condemned cases of imposition and unbridled display of godfatherism in spite of his sterling performances in the state that prides itself as ‘The Centre of Excellence’  between 2015 and 2019. 