 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Non-Academic Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU) of Osun State University (UNIOSUN) has said it would be honouring a former governor of the state, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, his then deputy, Erelu Olusola Obada among others over the establishment of the university in 2006. The state university staff said they would also present an award to a traditional ruler in the state, the Orangun of Oke-Ila, Oba Adedokun Omoniyi Abolarin for establishing a school for children of the less privileged in his domain and beyond. Addressing a press conference on the campus, as part of activities marking the 10th anniversary of NASU, the union Chairman, Comrade Isaiah Fayemi also called on the Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Odunayo Adebooye to pay the workers’ entitlements which his administration inherited. The union also implored the university management to ensure regular and prompt promotion of staff, payment of earned allowances, upgrading and conversion of staff and implementation of allowances to members of staff. Fayemi said the union met with the new management as part of its efforts towards ensuring peaceful and progressive co-existence. He urged the VC to recall six workers of the university that were interdicted by the immediate past administration for protesting against injustice and corrupt practices in the university system. “Out new VC, Professor Odunayo Adebooye has started well. He has demonstrated some gestures towards goodness and we can deduct he is for peace and willing to pay our entitlements that he inherited. We must give him some time. He has demonstrated within short time in office that he is actually for peace and progress of the University and I am assuring him that NASU, under my watch as the Chairman will accord him expected support for the success of his administration. “It is visible to the blind and audible to the dumb that for the past ten years of our existence, NASU has cultivated a conducive environment for the Non-Academic staff to thrive and help achieve goals of Osun State University. It is also a known fact that NASU has promoted the collective progression of a strong workforce, advancing interests and maintaining dignity of labour. “I wish to reiterate the fact that Unions particularly NASU is a useful tool to set up reasonable dialogue with Government and management for long term improvement and as such their loggerheads with government or management should be understood as a progressive approach towards a better working experience for a strong work force. “Permit me to appreciate the Authorities of Osun State University, since inception that have witnessed industrial actions of NASU for their understanding. All actions taken are not to undermine your supremacy but for the betterment of the university at large. Without mincing words, some of these industrial actions have bought tremendous developments to Osun State University. Notable among others are, implementation of Earned Allowance to the workforce, and infrastructural developments through Tetfund and NEEDS assessment. So, I call on the incumbent authorities to see NASU as partners in progress. “Mr. Vice Chancellor Sir, Prof, Odunayo Clement Adebooye, I want to specially appreciate you for your supports since your emergence as the 4th substantive Vice-Chancellor of our dear Osun State University and in particular, for the success of this anniversary. You have demonstrated within your short time in office that you are actually for peace and progress of the University and I am assuring you that NASU under my watch as the Chairman will accord you expected support for the success of your administration. “Sir, I seize this opportunity to remind you of the entitlements of NASU members inherited by your administration, kindly use your good offices to put smile on the faces of the entire staff of the university. “A celebration of this caliber affords us the opportunity of bringing to the fore our achievements for the past 10 good years. The achievements include regular and prompt promotion of staff, payment of Earned Allowance, Upgrading and conversion of staff, Implementation of allowances to members of staff, securing a secretariat, purchase of a brand new 2014 Toyota Hiace in the year 2014, purchase of a fairly used laptop, commencement of Endwell scheme for the purpose of preparing for retirement, securing a piece of land for the purpose of erecting the secretariat, to mention but a few,” Fayemi said. 