Otoge administration is delivering good governance, says Senate President  Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has said his administration is prioritizing policies, projects, and programmes designed to make citizens self-reliant and more prosperous. “Our policies, projects, and programmes are designed to make our people self-reliant. In our opinion, that is the surest path to breaking the cycle of poverty and making our people more prosperous,” AbdulRazaq said on Saturday at the mega constituency empowerment programme organised by Senator Umar Sadiq of Kwara North. “This involves gradually moving many of our people from the age-long culture of dependency to sustainable practice of self-reliance through skills acquisition, support for small businesses, empowerment, and inclusion. “This mega empowerment by Senator Umar Sadiq is a good example. Rather than throw crumbs at people, we prefer building the necessary social and physical infrastructure, train people in life skills, and give them startup funds or equipment.” AbdulRazaq commended Senator Sadiq for choosing the noble path. “I also commend all our lawmakers at all levels who have been doing similar things. This goes a long way to strengthen what we do as an administration. We welcome more of it,” he added. Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, said the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration is working hard to fix infrastructural challenges and urged all Nigerians to continue to support the government. Lawan also called on the people of Kwara State to continue to support Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq to consolidate on his remarkable achievements in the last two years, saying that his administration has delivered on key components of governance in a way and style not seen over the past decade in the state. He acknowledged the humility and maturity of the Governor in handling of state matters, commending his leadership of the state and its people. “I call on the people of Kwara State, no one should deceive or confuse you. I urge you to re-elect His Excellency Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq for second term. He is already performing so well within just over two years. When those people talk to you again tell them they were here for 16 years and you couldn’t see so much in terms of things that benefit the ordinary person. What our colleagues in the National Assembly are doing is to complement your efforts in Kwara State. “Your Excellency the APC administration in Kwara State is barely two and half years. We know how far we have gone in just two and half years,” the Senate President said. The senate president particularly praised AbdulRazaq for working closely with the three senators from Kwara to perform their legislative functions with comfort and bring dividends of democracy to the people of the state. “All the three senators from Kwara State have been working with us in the senate. You have sent a great team to the senate. What we are witnessing today is giving account of stewardship in the last two years. Your Excellency, Senator Sadiq Umar is the chairman of our committee on Rules and Business. For him as a first-timer to be the chairman of Rules and Business is because he has exhibited commitment, hardwork and team work. The chairman of Rules and Business is the gate between every senator and his Bills. So, it’s a huge responsibility. It shows the quality of senators from Kwara State,” according to him. “Your Excellency, they wouldn’t have been able to do what they are today without you….You have given them the kind of support they need as members of National Assembly. I thank you for working with our distinguished senators, for supporting them to shine in the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” The organiser and senator representing Kwara North Senatorial District, Sadiq Umar, explained that the programme was to give back to the people of his constituency who gave him the mandate to serve them. He added that the programme complements the efforts of Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq in addressing the needs of people of North who he said have long been neglected over the years. “I have deliberately focused on programmes that will have direct impacts on the lives of the people in the areas of education, road, water, health, agriculture as well other infrastructure and human capital development generally,” he said. He assured Governor AbdulRazaq of the people of Kwara North’s continuous support for the administration. The lawmaker advised beneficiaries of his mega empowerment programme to make judicious use of the items for optimal benefits to them and their communities. The programme, which was well-attended by dignitaries such as federal and state lawmakers, cabinet members, traditional rulers, and political bigwigs, was preceded by a courtesy visit of the Senate President to the Governor. Accompanied by top government functionaries, the Governor meanwhile had earlier received Lawan and other senators at the Ilorin International Airport. 