 BY FRANCIS KADIRI The Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited on Thursday, revealed the identity of companies that imported adulterated Premium Motor Spirit into the country, while reassuring Nigerians that it will take actions to remedy the situation. A statement signed by Garba Deen Muhammad, Group General Manager
Group Public Affairs Division of the
Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd, said the Chief Executive Officer/ Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mele Kyari made the pledge at the end of a meeting with some oil marketers to resolve the issues generated by the recent supply and discharge of methanol blended petrol in some Nigerian depots. Kyari emphasized that defaulting suppliers have been put on notice for remedial actions and NNPC is  working  with the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Regulatory Authority to take necessary actions in line with subsisting regulations. Providing a graphic chronicle of the unfortunate incident, the NNPC CEO said that on 20th January 2022 ,the company   received a report from its  quality inspector on the presence of emulsion particles in PMS cargoes shipped to Nigeria from Antwerp-Belgium. He explained that NNPC investigation revealed the presence of Methanol in four PMS cargoes imported by the following Direct-Sale-Direct-Purchase suppliers as listed in the table below. The GMD reassured Nigerians of its capacity to restore sanity in the supply and distribution of quality Premium Motor Spirit also known as petrol across the country within a short period. While saying that MRS Petroleum imported adulterated PMS from Antwerp-Belgium using the vessel MT Bow Pioneer, it disclosed that Messers Emadeb/Hyde/AY Maikifi/Brittania-U Consortium deployed MT Tom Hilde to transport adulterated PMS from Antwerp-Belgium while Messer Oando Petroleum used MT Elka Apollon to do same harm from Antwerp-Belgium into Nigeria. According ti the GMD, Duke Oil further transported adulterated PMS into Nigeria using the vessel MT Nord Gainer. He noted that cargoes quality certificates issued at  loadport (Antwerp-Belgium) by AmSpec Belgium indicated that the gasoline complied with Nigerian Specification. “The NNPC quality inspectors including GMO, SGS, GeoChem and G&G conducted tests before discharge also showed that the gasoline met Nigerian specification,’’ he said. Kyari noted that as a standard practice for all PMS import to Nigeria, the said cargoes were equally certified by inspection agent appointed by the NMDRA. “It is important to note that the usual quality inspection protocol employed in both the load port in Belgium and our discharge ports in Nigeria do not include the test for Percent methanol content and therefore the additive was not detected by our quality inspectors’’ he stated. However, in order to prevent the distribution of the petrol, the NNPC CEO said the company promptly ordered the quarantine of all un-evacuated volumes and the holding back of all the affected products in transit (both truck & marine). 