 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Men of the Osun State Police Command have arrested a 52-year-old-man, Oluwafemi Baale, for allegedly scamming a visa-seeker in the state. Baale was said to have presented himself as an Inspector of Police while engaging in the alleged crime. He was reported to have defrauded one Adesiyan Julius of the sum of N258, 000, absconded with the money following which he allegedly blocked all means of communication with his victim afterwards. The suspect, according to a motion brought before a Magistrate Court in Osogbo by the Police, committed the offence sometime in April, 2020. It was gathered that when Baale was arrested about a year after allegedly committing the offence, the police reportedly recovered exhibits such as firearms, police uniform and army camouflage among other incriminating items. Inspector Kayode Adeoye, who represented the Commissioner of Police in the state, prayed that the court should allow the police to detain Baale for 10 more days in order to enable them conclude investigation on the matter before his arraignment. Kayode disclosed that the suspect would be prosecuted for offences such as conspiracy, fraud, impersonation, stealing, unlawful possession of firearms reported by one Adesiyan Julius of Alalade Street, Dada Estate, Osogbo, Osun State. He said, “On January 29, the complainant, Adesiyan Julius, reported that sometimes in April, 2020, the respondent who claimed to be a police officer and others now at large, fraudulently collected the sum of N258, 000 from him with the pretense of procuring a Canadian visa for him but absconded with the money and blocked all means of communication between them. “The respondent was arrested and was found to be in possession of one handcuff, one Pump Action with five cartridges, one bullet proof jacket, one police uniform, two police belts, four police warrant cards, one police walkie-talkie, and one Army camouflage among others.” Adeoye urged the court to grant the application to detain the suspect further to enable the police travel to Abuja and Lagos State to arrest other fleeing suspects.
Magistrate O. A. Oyenike granted the application by the police. 