 The Police Service Commission has suspended Assistant Commissioner of Police, Sunday Ubua, and Assistant Superintendent of Police, James Bawa for the role played in the alleged cocaine deal that led to the arrest of former Deputy Commissioner of Police, Abba Kyari. The Head, Press and Public Relations, of the PSC, Ikechukwu Ani, who made this known in a statement he issued in Abuja on Thursday, said the officers have been suspended from exercising powers and functions of their respective offices with effect from Monday, 14 February, 2022. According to Ani, the newly suspended ACP and ASP were working under the suspended DCP Abba Kyari in the Intelligence Response Team of the Force Investigation and Intelligence Department of the Nigeria Police Force. “They were also alleged to be involved in the current cocaine seizure and transferred to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency,” he said. The Commission’s decision, the PSC’s Spokesman said, was contained in a letter to the Inspector General of Police, dated 16 February 2022 and signed by Hon. Justice Clara B. Ogunbiyi, retired Justice of the Supreme Court and Honourable Commissioner 1 in the Commission for the Honourable Chairman, Alhaji Musiliu Smith, retired Inspector General of Police. The Commission in the letter titled, “Re- Investigation into seizure and Transfer to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency of 25 kilogrammes of Cocaine by the Office of DCP, Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Nigeria Police Department of Force Intelligence Bureau”, stated that in accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Rules 030406, the Commission has approved the suspension of the Officers “until the outcome of the investigation into the allegations leveled against them”. The PSC also directed the Inspector General of Police to note also that DCP Abba Kyari, who prior to this allegation was on suspension, shall remain so until the conclusion of investigations.” The IGP was requested to place on suspension Inspector Simon Agrigba and Inspector John Nuhu in accordance with the Powers of Delegation. “The IGP is further requested to inform the Commission of the arrest of ASP John Umoru who is currently at large whenever his arrest is effected to enable it take necessary action”, Ani’s statement said. The Commission also directed the Inspector General of Police to furnish it with information on further development on the matter for necessary further action. In the meantime, the Police Service Commission is said to be in receipt of a copy of IGP’s letter on the subject matter with Reference number CB: 4099/FHQ/ABJ/Vol16/151 dated 14th February, 2022 and addressed to Brigadier General Mohamed Buba Marwa (Rtd), Chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency. 