 BY AKINWALE ABOLUWADE Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has restated the resolve to collaborate with the Ogun State Government to end banditry and kidnapping in the border areas. This came as the two states held an inaugural joint security meeting in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, on Wednesday. The governors, during the joint meeting, held at the Presidential Lodge, Ibara, Abeokuta, emphasised the centrality of security to achieving socio-economic development. Governor Makinde said that the two states decided to collaborate in view of the growing rate of kidnapping and banditry. He said that “We came here to initiate a collaborative effort between our two states because it is the right thing to do and absolutely important. In recent times, we have seen cases of kidnapping. “My brother and I have an absolute commitment to the security of lives and property within the two states. We have experiences across the states and what this meeting will do for us is to be able to share these experiences and look at those decisions we can take to improve the security situation in our states.” The states resolved to tackle insecurity by setting up a joint security committee to oversee security matters along the boundary communities in the two states. A Joint Border Security Task Force with membership drawn from various security agencies in each state is expected to patrol boundary communities for security of lives and property. Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State said that the joint security meeting was deepened in history, common heritage and cultural affinity. He stressed the need to put a stop to the recurring challenge of herders/farmers clashes, kidnapping and other criminalities around boundary communities in the two states, saying, “This collaboration is peculiar not just because Oyo State is our neighbour, but the largest by land mass of the six South- Western states and the political capital of the zone. “We must jointly and quickly find ways to cooperate, collaborate and find solutions to the various security challenges in these communities. This is why today’s bilateral meeting is very timely.” 