 BY BAMIDELE FAMOOFO OPEC Secretary General, Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo, today participated in the Egypt Petroleum Show (EGYPS) 2022, taking place in Cairo between 14 and 16 February, 2022. The Secretary General took part in a panel session hosted by as part of the EGYPS Strategic Conference after attending the event’s opening ceremony. He also had engaging discussions with students during the Young Professionals Programme. Both events took place today, 14 February 2022. The panel session, ‘Modernizing the global energy dialogue for industry transformation’, featured several other industry leaders, including Dr Omar Farouk Ibrahim, Secretary General of the African Petroleum Producers’ Organization (APPO); Eng. Mohamed Hamel, Secretary General of the Gas Exporting Countries Forum (GECF), who participated via a recorded message; Joseph McMonigle, Secretary General of the International Energy Forum (IEF), among others. It was moderated by John Defterios. During the discussion, the Secretary General thanked Egypt and its leadership for organizing EGYPS 2022, highlighting that the event will serve as a platform to address the industry’s critical challenges. On the energy transition, Barkindo emphasized that “the conversation must be global and inclusive that leaves no-one behind,” adding that it should be driven by “science not emotions.” The Secretary General also noted the issue’s possible long-term impact on energy security, stressing, “This is important to all humanity. The science is clear.” Barkindo continued by highlighting the vital role that Egypt, the host of COP27, can play in addressing this challenge. “It is a tall order on Egypt, but they are capable,” he stated. In conclusion, the Secretary General said, “All hands should on the wheel to avoid any future risks. Everyone has a role to play.” At the Young Professional’s Programme, the Secretary General highlighted the importance of the event, given the vital role of the youth in the energy industry’s future. “Since its start in 2017, EGYPS has become one of the Mediterranean region’s premier energy events, and I would like to commend the organizers for involving hundreds of students from many of Egypt’s leading high schools and universities,” he stated. Addressing the students, Barkindo said, “You are the future! We must make sure you have the training, resources and incentives to become this industry’s next generation of leaders.” Barkindo also outlined in his remarks a number of issues that are facing the global energy industry. “The power to address such challenges lies partly in the hands of young people like you. The tech-savvy youth of this generation are uniquely qualified to harness the latest technologies and innovations, and apply them to helping adapt and enhance this industry in the decades to come,” he emphasized. He added that “Our industry offers dynamic opportunities to young people with diverse skill sets and educations in the sciences, technology, engineering and mathematics. It is an industry that gives bright young people the chance to make a meaningful and sustainable contribution to their community and the world at large.” The Secretary General also spoke to various international media agencies. OPEC’s Public Relations and Information Department is also participating at the event and is hosting a stand at the conference’s exhibition. EGYPS 2022, in its fifth edition, is held under the patronage of HE Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, President of Egypt. The Secretary General held a bilateral meeting with Tarek El-Molla, Egypt’s Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, and visited the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization. He will also visit the Yacht Club in Maadi. The Secretary General is accompanied by a delegation from the OPEC Secretariat. The relationship between OPEC and Egypt predates the establishment of the Organization. OPEC Founder Members – Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela – met at the Yacht Club in Maadi, Cairo, in 1959. At the meeting, a ‘Gentlemen’s Agreement’ was forged that led to the establishment of the Organization in Baghdad, Iraq, in 1960. Egypt has also attended many Meetings of the OPEC Conference as an observer. The Secretary General’s last visit to Egypt was in 2019, during which he participated in the same conference. 