 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI The joy of some survivors of the 2021 herdsmen’s attacks in Ebonyi State knew no bounds as the Nigeria Reform Church flagged off the reconstruction of houses that were destroyed by the attackers. Speaking during the foundation laying ceremony of the building projects worth N120, 000,000, the National President of the Church, Reverend Johnson Ebeke, disclosed that the shelters would include blocks of three bedroom flats for 17 widows. Ebeke said that four deep wells would be drilled to address the needs of the people of Nwori-Nduobashi Market Square in Ndiegu Ishieke Autonomous Community in accessing portable water. According to the cleric, the benefiting communities included Nduobashi, Odoke, Ekpufu and Obakota. He explained that the communities would get one borehole each from the Church as a means of assuaging their sufferings following the killings and destruction of property in the area on May 30, 2021. He stated that the Church would also assist over 150 other victims in adjoining communities to rebuild the destroyed houses. The clergyman further disclosed that the Church decided to show love after the palliatives that were earlier given following a situation report that the survivors of the attack needed shelters, drinkable water and other basic amenities to keep life going for them. According to Ebeke, the money for the projects was contributed by the Church leaders and their members with additional support from the Netherlands. He said that the 17 blocks of three-bedroom flats for the widows would be ready before the commencement of this year’s raining season. The Church leader charged the committee in charge of the project to ensure that the work was completed according to specifications and within the stipulated time as all that was needed had been procured.
He advised the affected people to continue to trust in God and to live peacefully among themselves with the assurance that the building project would be completed within two months. “We pray that absolute peace reigns to prevent reoccurrence of such gruesome massacre and wanton destruction. We charge the committee and those involved in the project to be up and doing and to ensure the completion within the stipulated time, using quality materials,” he said. The Project Committee Chairman, Rev. Nicodemus Ibinna-Udeh, and the contractor in charge, Augustine Nwechara, expressed the readiness to complete the building projects in record time. While responding, the natives, including the Vice-President of Ndiegu Ishieke community, Godwin Nwedeoga; the Nduobashi Village heads, Christopher Ojeogu and Friday Nwogbala; and Elizabeth Nwogbodo, a widow who benefited from the scheme, among others, expressed excitements on the kind gesture of the Church.