 The Council of Maritime Transport Union Associations, on Wednesday, in Lagos protested against the indiscriminate arrest and issuance of fines on vehicles hijacked by the officials of the Lagos State Committee on Abandoned Vehicles. The association warned that if urgent steps were not taken to address the situation, it could lead to breakdown of law and order. In its letter to the Special Adviser, Lagos State Ministry of Transport, the Legal Director of COMTUA, Temilorun Komolafe, stated that the officials usually hijacked vehicles from drivers while in transit and driven away as abandoned. It read that most of the seized vehicles were usually driven carelessly thereby causing damages. The letter dated 28th January, quoted Komolafe as saying that officials of the Committee used arms and ammunition by Policemen and thugs to intimidate members of the union in the course of their operation. The letter indicated that fine papers were hardly issued. Rather, cash collections ranging from N300,000 to N500,000 were being taken. While the trucks were reportedly driven, N150,000 fine were alleged to have been issued, with N50,000 being collected as charges for treatment for injured personnel. The letter titled, ‘Indiscriminate arrest and discrepancies associated with issuance of fine tickets by agency on abandoned vehicles,’ read in parts, “We wish to draw your attention to issues of irregularities surrounding the above mentioned agency under the Ministry of Transportation some of which include hijacking vehicles from drivers while in transit and driven away as abandoned vehicles and driving vehicles carelessly, thereby causing damages to some vehicles. “In a bid to carry out this operation, weapons are used by thugs attached to the team while  Policemen attached to the team use guns freely sometimes on our members. “Fines are hardly issued rather cash collections ranging from N300,000 to N500,000 are accepted. “Where fines are issued it contains N150,000 as towing (even when trucks were driven), treatment for injured personnel N500,000 and fine to be paid N50,000. ‘‘Vehicles are deliberately kept for many days to generate daily charges of N2,000/day as demurrage. ‘‘There is no medium to seek redress or contest the ticket issued rather than extortion. “Our members are harassed and injured mostly by thugs attached to their team.’’ The Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority and the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers’ Council were also copied in the petition. 