 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The Electoral Act Amendment Bill which President Muhammadu Buhari refused to assent to last year because of the inclusion of compulsory Direct Primaries by political parties was retransmitted last week with the removal of that clause on the method of conducting primaries by political parties. The re-transmitted Bill was reversed to allow political parties to use any method of primaries they feel is better. Parties, according to the amendment, are at liberty to conduct their primaries using the direct or indirect primaries or even opt for consensus candidacy. However, the Bill still remains largely contentious. There are two principal clauses said to be causing problems for which the governors are said to be at loggerheads with their lawmakers who are in support of the bill. The governors, it was learnt, are accusing the lawmakers of mischief claiming that the represented Bill was meant to hand over the parties’ structure in all the states to the lawmakers and their “godfathers” who are the brains behind it all. But while the APC governors are said to be bent on “killing” the Bill, their PDP counterparts are begging the President to assent to the Bill. This is a total departure from the reactions of the political parties; the ruling APC, the main opposition party, PDP and others that were in agreement and in one voice, calling on the President to decline his assent to the Bill last year. The Executive Director, Adopt A Goal for Development Initiative, Ariyo Dare Atoyebi, while reacting to the reported misgiving of the Bill caused between the governors and the lawmakers said, “the plot by some governors to stop the President’s assent is wicked and unfortunate. One thing we must know is that as Nigerians we must continue to push for an electoral framework that will help to guarantee free, fair, transparent and credible elections now and in future.” Atoyebi argued that the retransmitted Bill is in order because the National Assembly has met the conditions of the President and expressed total disappointment in the attitude of the governors who are against the Bill and are doing everything to stop it from seeing the light of the day. “The National Assembly has met the conditions of the President which is to give more than one option for the party primaries. And the National Assembly has graciously considered direct and indirect and the new addition con-consensus and they have given this consensus option significant clarifications. Therefore, the President has no reason not to sign this Bill into Law. “I’m also aware there is a provision or a clause which for personal reasons some persons are kicking against the Bill and it has to do with the minimum time to resign as an appointee. This is not a bad amendment, however, if the President deems it fit that there is a need to remove this clause, what we want him to do is to go by the way of the Petroleum Industry Bill and sign this particular Bill into law and immediately communicate an amendment to the National Assembly. Any further delay will jeopardize the 2023 general elections.” He warned that the Civil Society Organisations will not fold their hands and watch the country’s democracy being dragged into the mud by those who should protect it.