… Gov hails predecessor  Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, on Tuesday, inaugurated the 4.22km Igbogene-Okarki road project in Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State in continuation of Governor Douye Diri second anniversary celebrations. The section inaugurated is the first phase of the outer ring road project, which is a dual carriageway to link communities in Ogbia and Nembe local government areas of the state. The Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, had last Thursday inaugurated the Igbedi community road project also constructed by the Governor Diri administration. Expressing surprise at how Governor Diri has been able to undertake numerous projects at the same time despite the challenges of paucity of funds, Senator Mohammed described him as a peaceful governor, who unifies his people. He said, “You have a man that exudes confidence and humility. He frees resources to do so many things at the same time. It is so amazing. I do not have to advise you to give him a second chance.” Governor Mohammed also lauded former president, Dr Goodluck Jonathan, for his patriotism and acknowledged the role he played in the country’s politics, saying he is the father of Nigeria’s politics. He said Jonathan and other illustrious sons of the state such as the late Chief Melford Okilo had distinguished themselves as national leaders and built bridges of unity and peace. In his remarks, Governor Diri said the project was conceived and started by the immediate past governor, Senator Seriake Dickson, who was present at the ceremony and commended him for his vision. He noted that his administration took over the road project at a time federal allocation was dwindling but had to demonstrate commitment towards ensuring completion of the first phase. He said, “This road project was started by my predecessor, Senator Seriake Dickson. When we came on board, we re-awarded the project to Lubrik Construction Company. “Today, we are seeing the completion of phase one of the project with street lights on it. I can only but give thanks to God and to the former governor. This is the beauty of continuity. “Government is moving from one hand to another and projects started are being completed and not abandoned. That is the only way our resources cannot be wasted.” He expressed gratitude to the people of Igbogene community for their peaceful disposition and support to his administration to embark on people-oriented projects. In his address, the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Mr. Moses Teibiwei, said the project was necessitated by the expansion of Yenagoa, the capital city, over the years. He explained that the road has a 7.5 metres driveway and a shoulder of 2.5 metres leading to Yenegwe, Kolo and Nembe road while section 4 is at an advanced stage. “It was agreed that the 4.225 kilometres single carriage road of section one, which starts from Igbogene to Okarki, and section 4 which is 7.7 kilometres from Imiringi to AIT, would be constructed. “While sections 2 and 3 of the road will be considered later for construction. Section 4 of the road will be commissioned within this year.” According to him, the Igbogene-Okarki road would serve as a bypass to commuters travelling to towns and communities in Ogbia and Nembe local government areas as well as decongest traffic on the Yenagoa-Mbiama road. 