 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Police in Osun State have arraigned a 34-year-old-man, Lucky Chukwu, at an Osogbo Magistrate’s Court for allegedly fleecing a Spain-based lady of the sum of N3, 500,000 while involved in an internet romance. Chukwu, father-of-two, claimed to Linda Aigbedion Edoh that he was a bachelor, based in America. He was accused of fraudulently collecting the sum of N3, 500,000 from Edoh, a lady said to be seeking a suitor. When Chukwu cut off links with Edoh, both online and offline, she lodged a complaint with the police. It was gathered that a team of Police detectives in Osogbo tracked the suspect down in Abuja, where he was apprehended. Chukwu was slammed with charges of conspiracy, obtaining money by false pretense, stealing and threat to life. The charge against him read that “Lucky Chukwu and others now at large, sometime in the month of November, 2021, in Osogbo, with intent to defraud and under the pretense of residing in the United States of America, did fraudulently obtain the sum of N3, 500,000 from one Linda Aigbedon Edoh, a pretense you know to be false. “Lucky Chukwu, at the same time, place and date, did steal the sum of N3,500,000, property of Linda Aigbedon Edoh and threatened to kill her if she did not comply with your money request.” Police Prosecutor, ASP Fagboyinbo Abiodun, said that the accused person committed offences contrary to and punishable under sections 422,419, 516, 390(9), and 86 of the Criminal Code Cap 34, Volume II, Laws of Osun State, 2002. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the four-count-charge leveled against him. The defence counsel, Theophilus Idowu, applied for bail for his client in liberal terms, assuring the court that he would not jump bail. Abiodun, however, told the court that it would be difficult to get the defendant back in court as he does not reside in the state. Delivering his ruling, Magistrate A. O. Daramola granted the accused person bail in the sum of N2 Million with two sureties in the same amount. He said that one of the sureties must be a civil servant not below grade level 13. Chukwu was taken to Ilesa Correctional Centre for failing to meet his bail conditions. The matter was adjourned till March 9 for mention. 