Says Oyetola’s membership of CECPC can’t guarantee free and fair primaries  BY
BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Governorship aspirant for Osun State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, Fatai Adeoti said he will not leave APC for  the leader of the party, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his cousin, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola regardless of their intrigues. Adeoti who was at the Buhari House national secretariat of the party on Thursday to undergo screening also said he has no confidence in the primaries to be conducted by the CECPC as long as the incumbent governor remains a member. “I was a pioneer member of the APC in the state of Osun. In 2018, our emperor, Bola Tinubu frustrated my ambition to become the candidate of our great party because he wanted his cousin, Oyetola to pick the ticket. I left and joined ADP but this time around, I am not leaving APC. “We had prepared between 75 and 80 percent for the primary before it was scuttled at the eleventh hour. Ekiti state primary was conducted based on indirect but when it came to Osun they changed it to direct on the instruction of the emperor who happens to be the leader of the party. He insisted that his cousin must be the governor. The person I’m talking about is Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, he said if his cousin was not returned he will not finance the election. The outcome was what you all witnessed, he actually lost the election in the first ballot by 353 votes and they said out of 310,000 units in Osun, and there was rerun in seven units and it was the rerun that salvaged the party.” The former Secretary to the State Government under former governor Raufu Aregbesola maintained that it is the turn of the people of Osun west to produce the next governor but added that the incumbent governor through the help of his cousin, Tinubu hijacked it because he (Tinubu) threatened he would not support the party financially if another person was given the ticket. “In 2018 everyone was of the concensus that it was the turn of West senatorial district. Before 2018, Central had Chief Bisi Akande and Olagunsoye Oyinlola between 1999 and 2010 when the latter was ousted by the courts and Rauf Aregbesola was sworn-in 2010. He spent eight years from East senatorial district. We all felt it is now the turn of Osun West. In the aborted third republic we had our own man late  Senator Isiaka Adeleke in the saddle as the first democratically elected governor for only 22 months before it was aborted by the military. Since we have been clamouring that it is the turn of Osun West and up till now we are still clamouring,” he said. Adeoti further said, “The party and government in Osun are in serious problem. In 2018, with all the shenanigans he won with a difference of 432 votes. The situation is not helped by the chairman who has compounded the situation of things. He is from the same local government as the governor, Boripe local government. But nothing has been working since the governor has been on the saddle. “All you see and hear are newspaper hype. He has concentrated his amenities and road construction in only his local government alone. In my local government, Iwo which is the most populous local government, he is just trying to construct one road. “Two issues are central to any government, the security and welfare of the citizens. On this, in the governor’s federal constituency, Boripe/Ifelodun and Odo Otin, there is no functioning commercial bank. this is to show you the level of insecurity in the state. We both served in the last administration, where we bought 28 Amoured Personnel Carriers (APCs) but as we speak non is functioning. He refused to service them. In the past, when three banks were robbed in Ikirun, we apprehended all of them but now nothing is being done, there is no functioning bank. “In the area of welfare, like I said a local government as big as Iwo has not enjoyed anything. I’m promising that all these laxities will be things of the past if I assume office.” He disclosed that he has submitted a petition to the CECPC expressing fears that the primaries may not be free, fair and transparent.
“Let me add that we have just submitted our petition to the caretaker committee on two grounds: first, the date of the gubernatorial primary has been changed from 5th of March to 19th of February without any reason. In Ekiti state, it was extended from 17th of January to 27th but in our case they are bringing it back by two weeks preceding the national convention. “Secondly, up till today governor Gboyega Oyetola is still a member of the CECPC led by Governor Mai Mala Buni. I don’t see how the primary will be free and fair if Oyetola is a judge in his own case.” 