 The Old Students’ Association of Community Comprehensive High School, Ikaram Akoko, says it has attracted construction works worth N12 million to the school. The President of the Association, Olurotimi Williams-Daudu, stated this at the inauguration of the renovated five classrooms block and foundation laying ceremony of the schools’ administrative building, on Sunday, in Ikaram Akoko, Akoko Northwest of Ondo State. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the project was approved under the Ondo State Social and Community Development Scheme, a World Bank-assisted scheme. According to Williams-Daudu, the project is for the construction of a standard science laboratory for physics, chemistry, biology and agricultural science. The President said that the project would have a VIP toilet facility and motorized borehole to be reticulated beyond the school for domestic use by the community. Williams-Daudu added that the association also embarked on a programme, tagged, ‘Train a child initiative’, where indigent students with bright academic prospects were identified by the school principal and his team for sponsorship by willing members of the old students. He stated that whoever adopted a student under the initiative would be responsible for payment of his/her school fees, provision of school uniforms, sandals and books. The president urged the state government to complement the association’s efforts, saying, “Prior to the intervention of the Old Students’ Association, the school had only four teachers. To ameliorate this, the association recruited ad-hoc teachers and corps members who are on our payroll. “The state government responded positively by posting some teachers to the school. As of today, the school has attained UNESCO standard in terms of students/teachers ratio.” Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Security Matters, Adetunji Adeleye, noted that the association was trying  to secure the future of the community. Akeredolu, who said that the gesture of the association would go a long way in solving some of the infrastructural problems in the school, urged other stakeholders to embrace the ‘Adopt a child initiative’ of the alumni association in the state. He said, “It is a good development that the association has started as some of these indigent students could be the future leaders of the country. ”If they are deprived, they might go astray and their beautiful dreams could die. I want to implore all to assist the indigent students.” The Principal of the School, Adebisi Adesina, appreciated the members of the association for their support towards the school’s development. (NAN). 