 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Owa Obokun of Ijesaland, Oba Gabriel Adekunle Aromolaran has described the recent killing in Ilesa , Osun State as disturbing and unacceptable. The monarch, therefore, called on security agencies in the state to be alive to their responsibilities. Reacting to rising cult clashes that claimed lives in the ancient town, Oba Aromolaran condemned condemned the incessant menace of bloody cult attacks, especially on innocent residents, and said it was high time security agencies restored order to his domain. The monarch refuted claims in some quarters that he was treating the issue of cultism with a kid glove, appealed to traditional rulers, Chiefs and politicians to support the law enforcement agencies in efforts at restoring peace in the land. He warned that acts that were inimical to the rich cultural values of his domain would not be condoned forthwith. No fewer than ten residents of Ilesa had been reportedly killed in a renewed clash that broke out between rival cult groups on Monday. It was gathered that the rival suspected cultists clashed at Brewery, Ifofin, Idasa and Irojo areas of the town on Monday night, leaving behind dead bodies. An eyewitness disclosed that the clash started from Irojo area of the town around 7:00pm before it spread to other communities where the cultists have stronghold. He said, “Some guys on motorcycle suddenly started shooting around Irojo inflicting injury on residents in the areas, who scampered for safety. Then in what looks like a revenge attack, another set confronted them and both groups engaged in shootout. “Other cultists from other hideout joined in the fracas thereby spreading the crisis to other parts of the town. About ten people were killed in different areas of the town, majorly cult members,” he said. Shop owners quickly locked their shops, while residents also ran for safety, thereby deserting the major streets in the town. It will be recalled that a man was allegedly killed by some  people suspected to be cultists at Atakumosa East Local Government  last Saturday during the primary election of the ruling All Progressives Congress in the state. Also, there had been pockets of cult attacks in the ancient town in recent times and the situation has been a major source of concern to the residents. However, while confirming the last incident, Osun police command spokesperson, SP Yemisi Opalola said only five persons were killed in the cult war. “More special police units have been deployed to the hotspots to further curb breakdown of law and order,” she said. Also contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Olabisi Atanda, said that security operatives were on top of the situation and that peace had returned to the affected areas. 