 The management of University of Lagos, on Friday, distributed a total of 104 iPads to indigent and visually impaired students during its matriculation ceremony. Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, Vice-Chancellor of the institution, said that the essence was to ensure that every student was carried along in online learning. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Dr Jim Ovia, Founder/ Chairman, Zenith Bank Plc. had, at the university’s 51st convocation, donated a total of 3,500 tablets (iPad) to support indigent students for online learning. The gesture was in response to the the earlier plea by the VC for support to over 1000 indigent students in the university. Ogundipe said that 50 of the iPads were given to indigent students, while 54 were for visually impaired students. The university, he said, would continue to give more whenever the need arose, stressing that meeting the academic needs of every student of the institution was one of his administration’s core mandates. He said that “It is our duty to strive to enable the disadvantaged to access education, especially in this era of technology. “We are glad that this is coming at the right time and that is why we will waste no time in ensuring that those who truly deserve this are given promptly for maximum use. “We have a total of 3500 indigent students, but some of them have already graduated. “A total of 3,500 of the tablets were donated by Dr Jim Ovia. So, what we have now done is to deploy some of the tablets, precisely 500 of them, to the library for students’ use. “Those who want to use them could go there, borrow and use for about two weeks and return them, after proper documentation, just like somebody going to the library to borrow books. “This practice will equally go a long way to assist the students access education in any field, as well as enhance their performance,” Ogundipe said. The VC disclosed that over 50,000 candidates applied for placements in the university for the academic session, but only 11,885 were admitted. “You know the admission was in two phases. The total admitted 8,038 for the 70 per cent for the 2020/2021 academic session, and 3,847 for the remaining 30 per cent to complete the cycle,” he stated. To check the growth of drug abuse in the institution, the professor of Botany said, “It has been a practice in this university to ensure that all students that are admitted here, during their registration, are also screened for drug abuse. “We have been doing that in the last three years. And those that deserve counseling, we direct them to the university counselors to counsel them. This year is not an exception,” he stated. The VC urged the students to be focused, dedicated and determined, to make their future bright. Dennis Olisa, Executive Director, Zenith Bank Plc., who represented Ovia at the event, said that the essence of the donation of the tablets was to give back to the society. “Whether you like it or not, for the mere fact that we are all standing, we are all alive and we are all breathing, we owe a duty to ourselves and also the society, to “Zenith Bank has been there for a very long time. We are here to stay and we believe that we are also part of this community. Students that have graduated from this institution work with Zenith Bank. “We are part of the entire society and we believe that we can look out for each other, see what we can do to help each other and that is why we did it,” Olisa said. (NAN). 