 BY MOYINOLUWA BAMIDELE-LUCAS Efforts of the Ogun State government to develop the Adire local fabric and make it a global brand has received a boost as the Federal Government through the Office of the Vice President on Shared Facility, announced its support for the local fabric. A statement issued at the weekend by Kunle Somorin, Chief Press Secretary to Governor Dapo Abiodun in Abeokuta said this was made known when the governor played host to the Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business, Jumoke Oduwole. The governor, the statement said, explained that the shared facility would be provided towards scaling the Adire market in the state. Abiodun who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Tokunbo Talabi, also noted that the shared facility which would be geared towards building modern facilities for Adire in the state would be specially built for the purpose of Adire in the state. He further noted that the facility was coming at a time when the Adire industry was booming in the state, disclosing that construction work on the facility would start in earnest. “We are getting some level of support from the Office of the Vice President on Shared Facility; the facility is geared towards scaling the Adire market. “Basically, what the shared facility is, is to build a modern infrastructure and because of the prominence and strategic importance of Adire to the state, that has been the area that the facility will be, so the market is going to be redesigned, they are going to build new stalls, they are going to be specialized. “It is not a general market building, it is specialized for Adire. So all the facilities are geared towards scaling and industrializing the production of Adire and we have the privilege of hosting it here,” he stated. Abiodun, however, disclosed that the state government was getting the hotel chain in the state together by organizing a joint tour and pickup for visitors coming into the state through the rail, adding that the plan would further increase the influx of people into the state to relax, do business or play golf. He called on the Special Adviser to periodically create a channel where data would be made available for the use of his administration, urging her to also do more advisory work for his administration. 