 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The Independent National Electoral Commission has warned aspirants crisscrossing the length and breadth of the country, seeking endorsements to contest for presidency in the coming general elections 2023 to abide by legal provisions guiding the exercise. The electoral body gave the warning while fielding questions from the media during a press conference to clarify issues surrounding the conduct of the forthcoming general elections next year. Chairman of INEC, Mahmood Yakubu, said those aspiring for one office or the other and have started campaigns by travelling from one city to another to seek for endorsement are violating both the Constitution and the Electoral Act on commencement of campaign by political parties. “This is not a matter of the Electoral Act, it’s a constitutional provision that the time frame for commencement of campaign must adhere to 150 days to the election and must end the campaign 24 hours before the election. So, let me use this opportunity to draw the attention of parties and candidates that the law made specific provisions for the commencement, movement and end of campaigns. “I want to urge Nigerians to abide by the provisions of the law including the political parties. What we will do is to very quickly call a meeting that will involve all political parties in Nigeria and discuss the issue that has to do with the attention of political parties concerning elections as required by law,” he said. APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, former PDP presidential candidate in the 2019 general elections, Atiku Abubakar and former Senate President, Anyim Pius Anyim, are among the front runners traveling from one place to the other seeking for endorsements for their presidential bid. The Electoral Commission boss while announcing new dates for the Presidential and National Assembly as well as the governorship and states house of Assembly elections noted that the Commission decided to establish fixed dates for general elections in Nigeria but the earlier date for the forthcoming general elections was affected by the delay in signing the Amended Electoral Act into law by the President. “Commencement of campaign by political parties for Presidential and National Assembly election is Wednesday, September 28, 2022. Commencement of campaign by political parties for Governorship and State Assembly elections is fixed for Wednesday, October 12, 2022. “You may recall that in 2017, the Commission decided to establish fixed dates for general elections in Nigeria. This decision was based on our determination to create certainty in the electoral calendar and to enable all stakeholders in the electoral process (the electoral commission, political parties and candidates, security agencies, observers, the media etc.) to prepare adequately for elections. “By that decision, Presidential and National Assembly elections shall be held on the third Saturday of the month of February of each general election year, while Governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections shall follow two weeks later. Consequently, the 2023 general election was scheduled to commence on 18th February 2023 with the Presidential and National Assembly elections, followed by the Governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections on the 4th of March 2023. However, the Commission could not release the detailed Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the General Election, as it normally would, because of the pending enactment of the Electoral Act 2022. The Bill has now been signed into law.” 