 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL MTN Nigeria has said it is yet to receive notification of a strike from the Private Telecommunications and Communications Senior Staff Association of Nigeria. This was disclosed in a statement on Wednesday, signed by the Company Secretary, Uto Ukpanah, and titled “Response to new alleging planned industrial action.” Recall that PTECSSAN had threatened to disrupt MTN’s operations if their demands are not met, as the company has ignored the recommendations of its workers despite Federal Government’s intervention. The company however denied receiving such communication from the association, and so won’t be able to validate or comment on the issue. The statement stated, “MTN Nigeria Communications PLC. (MTN Nigeria) has received multiple media enquiries about a communication purportedly circulated by the Private Telecommunications and Communications Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PTECSSAN) which alleges plans for an industrial action intended to disrupt national communication services. “The Company has not received any such communication from PTECSSAN and as such is unable to validate or comment on the issue,” it noted. The company reiterated its commitment to continue engagement with PTECSSAN and its representatives via established channels. “If there are any concerns, we are sure that they will be brought to our attention and dealt with in a mutually beneficial manner,” it added. Also speaking on the matter, the company’s Chief Human Resources Officer, Esther Akinnukawe said that for over two decades, it has built a ‘people first’ culture that values diversity, inclusivity, and hard work, adding that all its employees are at liberty to exercise their right to free association. “We have stringent policies in place that promote meritocracy and protect our employees from all forms of harassment and discrimination and create a workplace where employees feel valued and safe,” Akinnukawe said. Union President, Opeyemi Tomori however disagreed, stating that MTN ignored demands of the union, despite the Labour Ministry’s interventions. He added that it has become inevitable that the union issues a 14-day ultimatum to alert the public of imminent industrial action. 