 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Police in Osun State have commenced investigation into the circumstances that led to the death of a 200 level student of the Department of Linguistics and African Languages, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Ajibola Heritage Ayomikun. The police also arrested the manager of the private hostel where the student died. Miss Ayomikun was confirmed dead on Wednesday after falling into a septic tank in a private hostel on the campus. The Point gathered that the incident occurred when the deceased stepped on a plank used to cover a damaged concrete cover on a septic tank in a hostel called Bver. According to an eyewitness who stayed in the same hostel with the deceased, Ayomikun screamed inside the soakaway immediately she fell. “The line for drying clothes passed through the soakaway and there was a plank used to cover a part of it. She was standing on it to dry clothes before she suddenly slipped and fell inside it. We raised alarm before she was removed after about an hour. In an exclusive interview with The Point on Friday, the Police Public Relations Officer, Yemisi Opalola, confirmed that the police had begun investigation on the incident adding that the outcome would be made public. Opalola also disclosed that the manager of the Bver hostel had been arrested. “We have started investigation on the matter,” she said. The Point exclusively gathered that the manager of the private hostel was arrested on Thursday by the police. When asked if it was true, Opalola said, “yes, we have arrested the manager.” However, authorities of OAU have disclosed that the Criminal Investigation Department of the state police command took over the investigation of the circumstances that led to the death of Ayomikun. A release by the Public Relations Officer of the university, Abiodun Olarewaju, stated that the unfortunate incidence, saddened the university management, describing it as tragic, devastating, unfortunate and unacceptable. Olanrewaju further said that the owner of the private hostel where the incidence occurred has been issued a query by the university management and his response was being awaited. “It must be noted that all the hostels in the students village are privately owned and they are not under the control of the University.  The University Management presently has only oversight functions on these private hostels,” Olarewaju said. 