..as Osun govt warns troublemakers  BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Osun State Commandant, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Emmanuel Ocheja, has disclosed that some unknown hoodlums attacked the convoy of the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola in Osogbo, capital of the state on Monday. In a statement made available to newsmen on Monday evening by the command’s Public Relations Officer, Atanda Olabisi, on behalf of Ocheja, the attack happened around 6:40pm around Old Garage Area in Osogbo. “Unknown hoodlums attacked the convoy of the former Governor of Osun State and Minister, Federal Ministry of Interior Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola today (Monday) at about 1840hrs around Old Garage area in Osogbo, the State Capital. However, the security details of the Minister were able to disperse the hoodlums and bring normalcy to the area. “Commandant Emmanuel Ocheja said Osun State is a peaceful state and the command will continue to render excellent and all–inclusive security services in the State, in line with the statutory mandates and functions of the Corps. Professionalism and impartiality is the watchword of NSCDC at all times,” the statement read. The Point had reported that Aregbesola was having a road show along Popo-Post Office/Orisunbare areas when some suspected thugs started shooting. Meanwhile, the state government on Monday raised the alarm over plans by some “misguided cowards” to foment trouble in the state. A statement signed by Funke Egbemode, the state Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, disclosed that security agencies had been beefed to forestall any breach if peace. “We have credible reports that some misguided cowards have invaded Osogbo, the Osun State capital with armed thugs to foment trouble. These miscreants and their kingpin started shooting as they raced through the town. “Their interest is simply to attempt to thwart the peace of the state and create fear in the minds of the good people of Osun counting on a long-lost influence. “The Government of Osun hereby warns that there are no sacred cows in the state. No one is above the law here regardless of their past glories or future aspirations. Security agencies have been well briefed about the activities of these mischief makers, who have set themselves on a collision course with the law. “Anyone, irrespective of their office or station, caught disrupting the peace of Osun will answer to the law. “Parents and guardians are advised to warn their children and wards not to allow themselves to be used by evil men to achieve their sinister motives,” Egbemode said. 