.NIMCOS elects new officers  The Acting Comptroller General, Nigeria Immigration Service, Isah Jere Idris, has said that the Nigeria Immigration Multi-Purpose Cooperative Society remains one of the best structures for the NIS to drive its staff motivation and welfare programmes. NIS Public Relations Officer, Amos Okpu, said Idris stated this during the third annual general meeting of NIMCOS held at the Service Headquarters, Abuja. He maintained that testimonies abound about how the Cooperative Society has continued to positively change the lives of members, adding that “through the dexterity and meticulous management style of the Executive Committee, many members have become land owners while many others are on the verge of completing their personal buildings in some choice cities across the country.” The annual general meeting was called to elect new members who will pilot the affairs of the Cooperatives following the tenure expiration of the old management. He affirmed management’s continued support and guidance to the executive committee to ensure that transparency, integrity and due diligence are sustained in the running of the Cooperatives for enhanced benefits to all members. The acting Comptroller General who was represented at the event by the Deputy Comptroller General in-charge of Human Resource Management, DCG Aminu Bako Yarima, called on personnel who have been skeptical about becoming members to reconsider their positions to afford themselves decent life and living both while in Service and after retirement. In his farewell speech, the outgoing President of NIMCOS, Assistant Comptroller, Silvanus Obozokhai, stated that between the last annual general meeting held two years ago and Thursday, NIMCOS recorded 75.74% increase in membership as many personnel have become more aware about the huge benefits of being members as well as the giant strides the Co-operatives had made over the years. Obozokhai noted that members have continued to take advantage of the excellent management system and various low interest loan facilities such as Commodity Loan, Motorcycle/Keke NAPEP loan, and Land acquisition loan among others, to deepen their membership and in a way to prepare themselves for a beautiful life after retirement. He announced that several State Commands such as Adamawa, Benue, Niger, Abuja Headquarters and others have keyed into the Land ownership Scheme of NIMCOS to acquire land to enable members to build their personal houses. He reiterated his executive’s commitment to achieve full computerization of all processes and procedures in the conduct of the business of NIMCOS but noted that they were yet to complete the project. He therefore, charged his successor to contemplate many other beneficial reform efforts and projects that would continue to impact positively on the lives of members. Obozokhai thanked the NIS management and members for their support throughout his tenure for the overwhelming confidence reposed in him. A major highlight of the event was the election of a new executive committee to pilot the affairs of NIMCOS in the next two years. Those who emerged victorious in the election included Assistant Superintendent Dauda Salihu Barau as President and Superintendent Ibrahim Abdulkadir as General Secretary, among others. 