Governors elected on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party recently urged President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law. In this interview with MAYOWA SAMUEL, Ilyasu Gadu, a columnist and public affairs analyst, shares his thoughts on the implications of the president’s delay in assenting to the bill. Excerpts:  What are your thoughts regarding President Muhammadu Buhari’s delay in signing the Electoral Amendment Bill? You don’t need to look further than the way the party has fared under him. You could see that just a few days to the convention, the party is still not yet aligned as to what it wants to do and how it wants to organise the convention. There have been quite a lot of issues going on that are untoward and you would expect that as the president of the country and the leader of the party, he should be able to organise or at least, get the party faithful to organise themselves. The party has been under a caretaker committee for over a year now and it is incongruous for a ruling party to be in that state. If you cannot organise your party, then on a larger issue of organising elections in 2023, the party is likely to fail. At the end of the day, we have to interrogate the president to let him know that look, if you cannot run the party effectively, then how can we trust you to run free, fair and credible elections? I mean, he doesn’t seem to care about that. The 2023 election is quite germane for the survival of democracy and even the country itself. Because of the issues, people are looking forward to seeing the president superintend a credible election that will ensure a credible and fair transition to power. He was a beneficiary of such an election, so he should be able to give us an even better turn of elections in 2023. While some analysts and critics share your thoughts that the president cares less about the outcome of the 2023 elections, others are saying that people close to him in power are the ones dictating to him what to do. Do you believe that also? Sorry, I don’t buy that because he is the president, the buck stops on his table, the responsibility is his; he’s the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. All the paraphernalia of power, security, finance, resources are under his control. So, it is his responsibility to handle these issues without any blemish whatsoever. So, the idea of blaming subordinates or saying that subordinates are doing these stuff doesn’t hold water because that is not what the constitution demands of him and that is not what the Nigerian people demanded. So, he should be up and doing and he should be up to his task. Otherwise, it’s a failure on his part because he at other times had blamed other people for not doing the same thing, so we cannot excuse him for this. The last time the bill was sent to him, after the 30th day, he complained about the provision regarding the compulsory direct primary. This provision was amended as one of the three options in the bill and returned to him. Now, he has a few days left to assent to the bill but he is yet to sign it. Do you think the presidency is scared of the newly added provisions in the bill about resignation of public office holders before contesting for another position as well as that of choosing of a consensus candidate in a party? The president appears to have been spoon-fed to a point of  I don’t even know what to say. You have been looking for one excuse or the other. The issue of this bill has been on for, I would say most part of this administration. One time, it was that it’s not time for us to do the electoral thing, we are running against time and so on. Now, you have an opportunity to sit down, to drill through to make sure all the provisions of the electoral act are streamlined and the National Assembly in its own wisdom, has brought about something but you don’t like it, you can say go back again and do it, but there must be that capacity and ability to say look, I want a clean electoral bill, so that all the issues that have been bedeviling our electoral processes will be done with. It may not be solved in a day but, at least, let’s have the intention towards making sure that things are knocked out but it appears that the president doesn’t seem to bother or care and he’s looking for excuses but we should not allow him to go on with those excuses because we need to strengthen our electoral process, otherwise, the political process will not grow, so that’s why the president has to be put to task. We have a lot of experts on constitutional law, he should be able to sit down with them and say look, let us get this thing done. This is a far cry from the era of Murtala Mohammed and others who sat down and said look, let’s have a constituted assembly, let’s have a constitution, let’s have a new process. That was sincerity but in this case, it’s like he’s just not coming to play and that’s why it’s very sad and very potentially tragic for our country if the president is not up to the task in what he’s supposed to do constitutionally. After the constitutionally approved 30 days, if the president still fails to assent to this bill, will you support that INEC should make do with the existing electoral act? Well, I don’t want it to become a constitutional issue because when that happens, there will be a lot of arguments back and forth but we will hope that somehow, better heads will prevail and that the interest of the country should be considered above the interest of individuals or groups because right now, we need to have our electoral law strengthened so that we can deliver free, credible elections, otherwise, we are just heading for chaos and it’s not proper for this country at this point in time to have that kind of situation. INEC has fixed February 18, 2023, for next year’s election and according to the law guiding INEC, the government is supposed to provide them the funds to prosecute the election 12 months before the election. Going by the calendar, we already have less than a year left and as things stand, there’s no surety that these funds will be provided anytime soon. What’s the implication of this and do you think the election will be held as scheduled? That is why we don’t have to look at the tea leaves to say that this election is going to be dead on arrival because all the necessary props to say that the election is going to succeed are not there. By now, we shouldn’t be talking about whether there is going to be funding, it should have been something of the past now but it appears that for some reason or the other which may not be good for the country, some people are just interested in filibustering and it’s not good. That’s why it’s essential that we have to see it out. We can see what is happening around us in the sub-region. When you are not vigilant when you are not providing props for democracy to thrive, you give room for things like this, so let’s do the right thing. Especially for Buhari, who was a beneficiary of free, fair elections, he should also return the gesture to Nigeria. What is your summation on the outcome of the just-concluded FCT elections? Can you describe what we saw there as voter apathy? Yes, there was voter apathy because for a city like Abuja, the turnout was very low and very poor and that’s to say that something has to be done. People are becoming disillusioned about what’s happening in our country. They are thinking of the fuel crisis, how to feed themselves, they are thinking about inflation, poverty, insecurity, and all that. In fact, I can tell you that it is going to get worse because, from all the fillers on the ground, it shows that people are just disenchanted and not interested in how the political process is because of things like this. There is no certainty, there’s no straightforwardness, so people are saying why bother? Why should I waste my Saturday under the sun for people who are not going to bother about me when they get to power anyway? Still on the elections in Abuja, the PDP performed creditably well, especially with the APC being on the seat of power there. Do you think there is any hope for the PDP in the forthcoming presidential elections and even governorship elections? You know Abuja has always been a PDP stronghold, with few exceptions of course here and there. But over the years in Abuja, PDP has always carried the day in most parts. So, it’s not surprising that PDP performed well in Abuja but right now, I can’t say the same thing will happen all over the country. It’s early days yet, even though we are getting closer to the election. We are even talking about the electoral bill, and other things to make INEC work, they are still not there, so we just have to keep our fingers crossed. Despite getting closer to the general elections, the Abuja election was marred by the delay of the delivery of electoral material to polling centers. We also had issues with the BVAS. If these funds that INEC is asking for to execute the 2023 election are not forthcoming, is the government not already helping INEC to give an excuse for the 2023 election not to be successful? Not just even INEC, some of the political actors or the political parties could even try to hijack the process or even seek self-help electorally and that will be bad for the process because there will be a lot of untoward things happening and then we will have an election that is not free, fair and credible. 