 Students of the University of Jos have urged the Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities to explore amicable dispute resolution to avert recurrent strikes in the nation’s universities. The concerned students gave the charge in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria in Jos, on Friday. NAN reports that ASUU had, on Monday, declared a one-month warning strike to drive home its demands. Recall that the union embarked on nine-month strike, which ended in December last year. ASUU alleged that the Federal Government had yet to honour the agreement it reached since 2009. The students advised the duo to return to the negotiating table with a view to finding a lasting solution to the issue. A 400-level student of Mass Communication from UNIJOS, Edlyn Pam, lamented that the strikes constituted a stumbling block to her academic career. According to Pam, the strikes by ASUU delays her graduation. She added that it affected the academic calendar of public universities in the country. Pam said, “Ordinarily, by now I should have graduated, but for the numerous strikes by ASUU, I’m still here. “I have spent six years pursuing a course that I should have completed in four years; I’m not even sure when I’m going to graduate. “By the time I will be graduating, I may be above 30 years old and will not be eligible to go for the National Youth Service Corps. “I’m pleading with the Federal Government and ASUU to reach a sincere agreement so as to safe the future of university education in the country.” Kwaptoe Fred, said that both ASUU and the Federal Government should be sensitive to the plights of students, stressing that “To me, the demands of ASUU are genuine, but their approach to the whole thing sometimes looks wrong. “If truly an agreement was reached between it and ASUU, such an agreement should be honoured to the letter. “They say that when two elephants fight, the ground becomes the victims; the students in this case are the victims. “So, we are appealing to both the ASUU and the Federal Government to return to the negotiating table and find a common ground for the sake of future generations.” 