 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The factional leadership of the All Progressives Congress in Osun State has vowed not to accept the outcome of the ongoing governorship primary of the party. Addressing newsmen at his Ward 04, Isale-Oba, Iwo Local Government Area of the state, the factional Chairman of the party, Hon Rasaq Salinsile accused the state governor, Gboyega Oyetola of perpetuating fraud in the exercise through his membership of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). Salinsile said the primary is a mere exercise, waste of time and resources adding that it has been shrouded in anomalies. He revealed the alleged irregularities in the ongoing primary election saying, “Up till today, we have not seen the register of the party, which is against the rule of the game. At least, each of the spirant if expected to have a copy of the register of members but none of them has it. “We raised it at the stakeholders meeting at the party secretariat. Many of our supporters can’t find their names on the register. Governor Oyetola is one of the National Caretaker Committee of the party and he is one of those that planned the primary election. No one will set exam questions and fail himself. “All these anomalies will tell on the outcome of the election exercise. I see it as mere exercise, a waste of time and resources. We said it earlier that there are somethings that should be carried out before this election. As a member of the caretaker committee, Oyetola should have resigned 30 days before this election but he refused to resign. “This primary was earlier scheduled to hold on March 5 but it was brought back to February 19 because the National Convention would come up on February 26 and he knew that new set of people will be on board and he wouldn’t have the kind of influence he has now by then. That’s why he is making nonsense of this exercise. He is only abusing the position he holds as a member of CECPC. So, whatever comes out of this exercise is a nullity, we won’t take it,” he declared. 