 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI The separatist group demanding the sovereign state of Biafra, Indigenous People of Biafra, has composed and introduced the Biafran national anthem to schools in the South Eastern states of Nigeria. The group in a letter signed by its Head, Directorate of State, Chika Edoziem, dated January 10, 2022, sent to a school in Ebonyi State, Tricia Academy mile 50 Abakaliki, ordered schools, banks, companies among other groups, to teach all pupils/ students, employees in Biafran land the Biafran anthem and banned recitation of Nigerian national anthem. Edoziem, who described the Nigerian national anthem and flag as instruments of oppression, ordered that the flag should not be raised or the anthem sung in any part of South East (Biafran land). The content of the letter is as follows, “The Director of State of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) worldwide wish to use this opportunity to inform you that in pursuance to our total freedom from oppression, slavery and killing from the Nigeria state and in accordance with our desire to preserve our values and cultures and prevent the present existential threat to our race as Indigenous People of Biafra, the following instruments of oppression by the Nigerian state are no longer allowed anywhere in Biafran land. “The Nigerian flag must not be seen hanging anywhere in Biafra land. The Nigerian National anthem is banned from being used in events or sung in any school function in Biafra land. “To this effect therefore, every company, government parastatals, Banks, educational institutions must not have the Nigerian flag in their premises and all school authorities and proprietors must cease forthwith to teach our children the oppressor’s national anthem. The Biafran National anthem must be taught in all schools in Biafran land. All civil servants in Biafran land must be able to recite the Biafran National anthem as well.” Headmaster of the private school who received the letter in Abakaliki, Alphonsus Igwe said, “On my way out of the school gate for a meeting on 31st January 2022 a young man walked up to me asking if I was proprietor of the school. I didn’t answer the question, rather I asked him what I can do for him. Immediately he handed over a sealed letter to me and left as if being chased by a ghost. So when I opened it, I found out it was IPOB giving directives. So far, our Nigerian flag is down and folded. For fear of attack we have stopped reciting the Nigerian anthem during Assembly as they ordered,” The Head master explained. Efforts to reach the state’s Commissioner for Education, Sunday Nwangele, proved abortive at press time. 