 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO In what appeared like a sublte mockery of the aggrieved chieftains and members of the ruling All Progressives Congress in Osun State under the caucus of The Osun Progressives, cabinet members and other loyalists of the state governor, Gboyega Oyetola on Tuesday distributed and ate biscuits with ‘TOP’ inscriptions. The mild drama ensued in Ifelodun Federal Constituency during the ongoing familiarisation and strategic engagement of Governor Oyetola to the area. Some Commissioners, Senior Special Advisers to the Governor among other bigwigs of the party who are loyal to Oyetola were seen chewing the ‘TOP biscuits’ while others were displaying the inscriptions on the edible scornfully. TOP is a group of aggrieved APC chieftains and members of APC who are loyal to a former governor of the state and incumbent Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. When the state Commissioner for Works, Remi Omowaiye posted the pictures of the jestful display on his Facebook page, some of those who commented said the show meant that “TOP has been defeated by Oyetola,” “Oyetola has eaten TOP,” “TOP biscuits, an appetiser” among other reactions. Meanwhile, traditional rulers in the constituency have declared their support for Oyetola’s second term bid. Speaking at his palace, the Olokuku of Okuku, Oba Samuel Abioye Oyebode Oluronke, said that the quest to reelect Oyetola for second term must not be an option but a necessity in view of the tremendous achievements he has made in the last three years. Oba Oluronke said apart from the fact that the governor is from his Federal Constituency, his sterling performance and blueprints spanning across sectors are enough to earn him a second term. In the same light, the Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Ayotunde Olabomi, the Elende of Eko-Ende,Oba Olaniyan Abdul-Rauf and other monarchs in the constituency, promised to mobilise their subjects massively for the governor to actualise his dream. Addressing the people at the palaces of the monarchs and venues of the programme where his admirers and supporters were already assembled, Governor Oyetola expressed gratitude to the people of the state, particularly leaders and members of his party, for their continued love and prayers, saying their support has been the motivation and encouragement for him to continue to do great. Oyetola lauded the traditional rulers and high chiefs saying their warmth reception since the beginning of his tour across the local government areas in the state has been unprecedented. For Oyetola, their actions were indications of the level of his acceptance. 