 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The Independent National Electoral Commission has cleared governorship candidates of 16 political parties even as it declared that one party failed to meet the timeline for the conduct of its primaries and therefore cannot present a nominee for the election. Speaking at the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security meeting at the Commission’s headquarters in Abuja, the Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu said, “In the case of the Ekiti State Governorship election, the period earmarked in the Timetable and Schedule of Activities for party primaries ended three days ago on 29th January 2022. All 18 political parties served notices for their party primaries to elect their candidates for the election and invited the Commission to monitor them. “One party adopted the direct method for electing its candidate while 16 parties opted for the indirect method. However, from on our field report, the Boot Party (BP) did not hold its primary election at any venue known to, and monitored by the Commission. Consequently, we do not expect the party to nominate a candidate for the Ekiti State Governorship election. “On this note, let me once again warn political parties to strictly adhere to the Commission’s timelines for all activities, including the conduct of primaries and nomination of candidates. These timelines are firm and fixed. No deviation or violation will be allowed.” Yakubu also disclosed that the Commission has been evaluating the risk to the election using the Election Violence Mitigation and Advocacy Tool with the aim to identify early warning signals that could assist the security agencies and other stakeholders in devising and deploying appropriate mitigation strategies. He added that among other areas of concern, the Commission focused on threats specific to geographical locations, proliferation of small arms and light weapons, the issue of hard drugs, presence of insurgents and armed groups, intra and inter-party conflicts, and incidents of hate speech. Yakubu noted that the FCT Area Councils elections are holding in just 11 days away further stated that in the next few days, the Commission will intensify its engagement with stakeholders, particularly with party leaders and candidates, traditional and religious leaders, transport providers, civil society organisations and the media. “We will work with all stakeholders to ensure that the forthcoming election is peaceful and our processes credible. That is why this meeting is crucial. Securing the environment is the foundation for a peaceful, well-organised and credible election. This was clearly demonstrated in the peaceful conduct of the recent Anambra State Governorship election. Let us make the FCT Area Council election another shining example of a peaceful election.” 