 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL The former Editor-in-Chief of Newswatch magazine, Ray Ekpu, has warned against any attempt to introduce dictatorship into Akwa Ibom State as we approach the governorship elections in 2023. Ekpu, who is an internationally renowned media expert and multiple award-winning journalist, spoke in Ukanafun on Saturday, after the burial of his mother, Alice Ekpu. He said he was not interested in who supports who for election but was more concerned with issues of justice. “I am told that somebody has been anointed to be the governor and I think that is dictatorship, which must not be accepted. Dictatorship must not be accepted”, he stressed. While maintaining his neutrality, the renowned former Editor of Sunday Times said his choice will be based on justice and equity. “I don’t know who you support or who you don’t support but I’m supporting what is right, what is fair and what is just”, he said. Ekpu, who recalled that he had been jailed six different times for fighting for fairness and justice, promised to continue standing for what is true, equitable and just. He said he was most times deeply involved in using the media to fight various military dictatorships, leading to the current civil rule enjoyed in Nigeria. Ekpu argued that no one person can dictate who becomes the next governor of Akwa Ibom State, insisting that the people must be involved, as demanded in a democracy. “No one man on earth is wiser than all the six million people of Akwa Ibom State. I don’t think that is right”, he said. According to him, only respect for and enthronement of justice will ensure peace and even development in the state. Ekpu urged the government to ensure a level playing field for all the contestants to test their popularity in the field. “For me, we should have a level-playing field for everybody. I think that is what we should insist on – having a level-playing field for everybody”, he said. He commended Senator (Obong) Bassey Albert for his sterling performances in the Senate, specifically for focusing on issues concerning the Niger Delta and its development. “I’ve watched with keen interest your performance in the National Assembly, especially in protecting the interests of the Niger Delta people,” said Ekpu who was a member of the 2014 National Conference. Ekpu said the Niger Delta region, as a minority in Nigeria, has been badly treated and therefore requires people who can readily speak up for its liberation. 