 The Ebonyi State House of Assembly has declared the seat of the Deputy Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Odefa Obasi Odefa, vacant following his alleged resignation as a member of the House. Oliver Osi, representative of Ivo constituency and Ngozi Ezilo, representing Afikpo North East constituency in the state House of Assembly, were said to have defected from the Peoples Democratic Party to the All Progressive Congress at plenary. Their letters were read on the floor of the House of Assembly during the session, on Monday. The Speaker, Rt. Hon. Francis Nwifuru, explained that Osi and Ezilo also resigned their membership of the State House of Assembly. However, in a reaction, Odefa insisted that he remained the Deputy Speaker of the House, describing the action of the House as ‘monkey child’s play.’ “Why will I resign? It’s a monkey child’s place. It is only going to be by recall. I have not participated in any Congress organized by APC. I didn’t resign. “I do not belong to the APC. If you represent your people, it’s your people that will decide. No man is God. The House realized that they do not have 2/3 majority to effect my impeachment and that’s why they alleged that I resigned. That’s what happened. Why will I resign? Is it that am mentally deranged? “Did INEC give any other member a certificate of return? It’s now a legal issue. They plan to kill me. They are planning bloodshed. They cannot kill me because they didn’t create me. I chose to be in PDP “I have been threatened that I will be kidnapped and not be seen. Everything has to be by the law. Nobody’s life is worth any political position. They lack the power to forge a letter and read it on the floor of the House. I remain the Deputy Speaker of the Ebonyi Assembly. I have written to security agencies over the threat I received after the news of my press conference went viral.” Osi and Ezilo refuted the allegation against them, stating that they neither resigned from the party nor the House of Assembly. “Are my daydreaming to resign? It’s not normal. They have denied me my entitlements. My official car and what is meant for my constituents have been denied me. If I am to ever resign from PDP, I have to read the letter by myself and the House will vote in that regard. This is desperation. This is a kind of madness,” Osi said. Meanwhile, Kingsley Ikoro, representing Afikpo North West constituency had been nominated and sworn in as the new Deputy Speaker of the House. 