 As the train of strategic engagement tour of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun hits Ife-South and Ife-North Local Government Areas of Ife Federal Constituency, the Olubosin of Ifetedo Kingdom, Oba Akinola Oyetade Akinrera, has urged the Governor to fear no one as God and the spirit of his ancestors are solidly behind him. Oba Akinrera said that the modest achievements of the Governor, particularly in the areas of health, security, infrastructure and education, had already convinced the citizens, particularly his subjects, to get him re-elected for a second term. This is even as the Apetumodu of Ipetumodu, Oba Olusegun Joseph Oloyede, the Salu of Edunabon, Oba Kehinde Oladepo and other traditional rulers pledged their loyalty and support for the governor to serve the state for second term. Governor Oyetola had in the last two weeks embarked on a strategic engagement tour to familiarise with the newly-elected executives of the All Progressives Congress at the grassroots. Speaking on behalf of the traditional rulers in Ife-South Local Government Area, Olubosin of Ifetedo Kingdom, Oba Akinola Akinrera, extolled Governor Oyetola for the good works his administration has done to transform the state. Oba Akinrera particularly appreciated the governor for bringing to life the dilapidated and abandoned Ifetedo General Hospital. He said if that was the only thing he has done for his subjects, he should be expecting a reciprocating gesture through massive votes. The traditional ruler explained that the revitalisation of the general hospital and other primary healthcare centres across the council had contributed significantly to the healthy living of the people of the areas as it had become the signpost of quality healthcare service delivery. “On behalf of traditional rulers and the good people in Ife-South Local Government Area, I thank Mr. Governor for his tremendous achievements and for providing quality leadership in the last three years. We are particular about our local government where a lot of infrastructural developments have been done to make lives comfortable for the people. “If I don’t know much of what you have done, I am fully aware of your intervention in the health sector. I remember vividly that before you were elected in 2018, prior to my installation, the general hospital was in abysmal status and abandoned because of the dilapidated structures to the extent that goats could not deliver or give birth therein. But I thank you for refurbishing and equipping it with quality and state-of-the-art facilities. “You might not know the importance of what you did to us because that hospital alone has become the central place for quality healthcare service delivery in the entire council and beyond. To complement this, your administration also revitalized all our primary healthcare facilities across the nooks and crannies of the council. “We are indeed grateful for this gesture. Not only that, your swift intervention in education that birthed normalcy to reforms in the sector is also acknowledged. We have seen your hands in the education sector too. We cannot close our eyes to all these because you have been very generous to us. “You equally surprised us when you wanted to appoint a Caretaker Chairman; the person you appointed is indeed our choice. We have seen all these as a rare privilege and we promise not to take it for granted. You have given us quality, responsible and responsive representatives in this council. “Though you have done excellently well, as we all know, there is still a lot we want from the government. We want you to please consider our intra-town and inter-town roads for reconstruction. We want you to complete the ongoing electrification project at record time because this will help in no measure to improve the socio-economic activities of our people. We pray that by the grace of God, your second term agenda will be hitch-free. “We believe strongly that as long as you are there, our demands will be met. We have seen what you have done so far and we are not going to be ungrateful. We will support you and ensure that you are re-elected. You are a listening governor whose passion and love for people’s welfare and well-being is second to none. You are too humble and humane, and this has endeared many to you. There is no fear for you. God is with you. The spirit of our forebears is with you and we are solidly behind you”, the monarch assured. Speaking on behalf of the traditional rulers in Ife-North State Constituency, the Salu of Edunabon, Oba Kehinde Oladepo, assured the governor of his people’s support, saying they have already made up their minds to return him with their votes come July 16 governorship election. Oba Oladepo who represented the Chairman of the Traditional Council in the Local Government and Apetumodu of Ipetumodu, Oba Olusegun Joseph Oloyede, commended the governor for being faithful to his electoral promises. He said they have urged their subjects both at home and in the Diaspora to vote massively for him since he has a winning team and there is no point changing a winning team. “Since your assumption of office, you have no doubt taken the state to a higher level in various fields of endeavour, despite the meagre resources accruable to the state, be it infrastructural development, road rehabilitation, educational funding and human capital development, among others. “We in Ife-North are not left out in all the good works that you are doing across the state. For example, you have rehabilitated the road leading to our local government from Osogbo and appointed some of our sons and daughters into state government positions. All these good works are highly commendable. “Honestly, you have done creditably well to earn another term. We have urged all our subjects both at home and in the Diaspora to vote massively for you because you have a winning team and there is no point changing a winning team. “What you have done in the last three years is a sign that you can do better during your second coming, and this is going to manifest in the July governorship election. “We are assuring you of delivering Ife-North State Constituency to the ruling  party, while we will do everything that is humanly possible to ensure your victory because our people will vote overwhelmingly to return you to office to continue the good work that you are doing”, the monarch affirmed. Addressing the traditional rulers and members of his party, Governor Oyetola said his administration was committed to taking the state to enviable heights ever known in history. Oyetola who said though the purpose of the tour was to familiarise with the new executives of the ruling party and seek their consent to re-contest, he urged the people of the areas to continue to support his administration. The APC State Chairman, Gboyega Famodun, implored members of the party to remain steadfast and united in the collective goal to take the party to victory in the forthcoming governorship election. Famodun, who disclosed that the February 19 APC primary election may be held with direct mode, called on the loyalists of the party to start putting their membership cards nearby and vote Oyetola to become the party’s flag-bearer. Other party leaders who spoke at the venues of the programme urged the party loyalists and supporters to troop out in large numbers to elect the governor for a second term during the primary, next Saturday and in the July governorship election. 