Chief Tayo Sowunmi was born on Monday, February 16, 1942, to Chief Sobowale Akanbi Sowunmi and Alhaja Munirat Abeo Sowunmi. He holds the titles of Babanla Adinni of Egbaland and Baba Adinni of Ijemo, Abeokuta, Ogun State. This former secretary to the Nigeria Union of Teachers and first Secretary-General of the World Organisation for Peaceful Education tells TIMOTHY AGBOR how he always avoids eating junks and why he would want Muhammadu Lamido Sanusi to contest Nigeria’s presidency.  How do you feel clocking 80? I feel great and thankful to God for giving me this lease of life. I hope I will do more in life. It’s uncommon to see people live long, what’s your secret? Is there anything you do or eat especially? No. I eat normal Yoruba food but no junk food. It’s just the grace of God that has kept me going. How do you feel being celebrated by the personality of the 14th Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II? It was the greatest day of my life, I never envisaged it. But his coming from the Kano Emirate to honour me is the greatest anybody can do for me. And I am thankful to God that I lived till this day to witness this occasion. I am particularly impressed by the turnout, entourage and receptors in Abeokuta, too. During a reception party, you organised for Sanusi when he paid you a courtesy visit in celebration of your birthday, you did urge him to contest for the presidency, why? Yes, I want Sanusi to contest for the presidency because all my life, I have been a freedom fighter, I have had flair for a very good Nigeria where nobody will be oppressed. That struck me as a trustworthy person and his leadership, the way he conducted his affairs in the Kano Emirate was quite impressive. And you can see him, he is a simple person. He is a free man, he has held so many positions in life and he is intelligent. He has held so many positions in life and he has done so well. As a Governor of the Central Bank, Nigeria’s economy that almost went off went up in his time and when he left, it nosedived. But, as it is now, it’s God that gives you the position. That’s what he has said but I am sure the will of the people is also the will of God. If God wills it, he will become president and whatever he wants to do, I and my family will support him. How have you been living? I have written a book on my life, which I am going to launch on my birthday, 19th of February; I have said a lot in that book. My life has been very eventful. From the beginning, I think I have always been involved in one leadership role even when I was in primary school. I carried on till I got to the university when I actually became the president of the Student Union and I was also the secretary to the Nigeria Union of Teachers and the First Secretary-General of the World Organisation for Peaceful Education. All these are due to God’s grace and I am thankful to God. 