 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Special Adviser to Governor Gboyega Oyetola on Youth and Sports, Aremo Gboyega Adelabu on Wednesday said people’s narrative about sports in the state would soon change as efforts are on top gear to address all challenges battling the sector. Adelabu stated this during the monthly Stakeholders’ Forum of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria, Osun State Chapter. He scored the state low in terms of expectations of the people and assured that some steps have been taken to improve on sports facilities and equipment and make the state teams generate funds for themselves. “We know we are not yet where we wish to be but the narrative will soon change. The Governor has approved the re-grassing of Osogbo Stadium and the contractor will soon begin to work on it. We have equally concluded arrangement to purchase good, modern equipment needed in other sports because we discovered that most of our athletes are using antiquated equipment to train.” Speaking on the major challenges of the sports sector and efforts to overcome them, Adelabu said, “Funding has been the major challenge. Running of football clubs requires a lot of money which made us to think out of the box. Part of what we have done was to offer replica jerseys of Osun United and Osun Babes for sales to political office holders to jack up the revenue. There are plans to sell mugs, key holders and other merchandise that will bring income to the teams too. We are confident that with these, we can increase the financial base of the clubs.” When asked about athletes discovered during last year’s sports festival and general welfare of players, he said, “Most of those picked (during 2021 Osun Sports Festival) are with Osun United while others are among the contract coaches and athletes at the Osun State Sports Council. We equally made sure that all players of Osun United and Osun Babes sign formal contacts so that the team will receive some amount from their subsequent moves. “Also, prompt payment of salary will not stop while capturing of athletes shall be done soon so that all of them will get their salaries and arrears.” Earlier in his opening remarks, Chairman of the Association, Timothy Agbor appreciated the gesture of Aremo Adelabu and reiterated that Osun SWAN would not relent in its efforts at promoting government activities aimed at developing all categories of sports in the state. There was also a remark by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Sports Development, Vincent Akinbami who affirmed Governor Oyetola’s love for sports and several efforts to improve the performance of Osun United and Osun Babes. 