 President Muhammadu Buhari has met behind closed door with former Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo at the State House, Abuja. Okorocha, in an interview with the State House correspondents after the meeting, said he was in the Villa to seek President Buhari’s  intervention over his ordeal with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Okorocha, who allegedly accused the EFCC of unjust harassment, claimed that he had secured court judgment and two court orders at different forums which stopped the EFCC from harassing and intimidating him. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Okorocha is being charged by the EFCC with allegations that he conspired with others, including an APC politician and five companies, to steal N2.9 billion from public coffers as governor of Imo. The former governor, who is currently representing Imo West Senatorial District at the National Assembly, also accused the people he described as cowards of being behind his ordeal with the EFCC. Okorocha said, “I used this opportunity to intimate Mr President of what is going on between me and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the harassment and intimidation that I’m getting from the EFCC, literally on daily basis. ”I informed him that I have court judgment and two court orders from different judgments at different forums, which stopped the EFCC from harassing and intimidating me. EFCC has refused to obey the law. “I have to inform Mr President that EFCC should be made to obey the law that established it. And, without the law there wouldn’t be an EFCC. And the desperation with which they go about any affair concerning me should stop. ”The court ordered the EFCC to release my international passport, the EFCC has refused to obey. ”The court gave damages of N500million for EFCC to pay; EFCC has not paid that. “Rather than doing that, on the day of my declaration, EFCC went to the press to announce that I’m being prosecuted for some criminal charges of N2.9billion and no more N5.9billion.” Asked if reporting the EFCC to the President was to stop the corruption allegation against him, he said that he had not requested the president to stop him from being investigated but to get the anti-graft agency to obey the law. 