 There was disagreement at the National Assembly as the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, gave a retired Clerk of the Senate, Ibrahim El- Ladan, permission to sit at the table during plenary. El- Ladan discharged his functions as the clerk despite the fact that he had retired from service last week. The former clerk was retired over allegation of forgery of documents and age falsification. It was gathered that El-Ladan and two other permanent secretaries were involved in cases of forgery and age falsification making the National Assembly Service Commission to sanction them. The commission ordered El-ladan and another officer, Adebayo Anthony Adebanjo, to proceed on retirement with immediate effect, while asking Michael Okpara to retire in six months. In a statement signed by the Executive Chairman of the NASC, Engr. Ahmed Kadi Amshi, dated February 9, 2022, with reference number NASC/PF/69/184, titled: ‘Retirement from service’ addressed to Clerk of Senate, Dauda Ibrahim El-Ladan, the NASC had said, “The commission at its 547th meeting held on Wednesday, February 9, 2022, has approved your retirement from Service with effect from February 9, 2022. ”The commission wishes to acknowledge your immense contribution to the growth and development of the National Assembly Service. “As you proceed on retirement, please hand over your office and other government property in your possession to the Deputy Clerk, Senate (Legislative), Ilobah Isabella Ugochi. “On behalf of the commission, I pray that Almighty God will continue to grant you good health and success in your future endeavours.” Iloba was immediately appointed by the NASC as acting Clerk to the Senate in stead of El-Ladan. It was surprising to staff of the National Assembly when El-Ladan, the former Clerk of Senate, was seen carrying out his official assignment in the Senate chambers. The National Assembly staff and other stakeholders were seen discussing in groups, wondering how and why the President of the Senate would allow El-ladan into the chamber to preside at the table. They also took a swipe at Lawan for not recognizing the appointment of Isabella Ugochi Iloba by the NASC as the acting clerk of the Senate. 