 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI The Ebonyi State Command of Ebubeagu, the South East Security, outfit has arrested suspected members of a drug syndicate dealing in the hard drug, popularly known as Mkpurummiri (Methamphetamine). Parading the suspects, numbering twelve, at the Command’s office in Abakaliki, the state security consultant, Chief Stanley Okoro Emegha, told newsmen that Ebubeagu personnel got hints on the activities of the suspected hard drug merchants, and decided to raid their hideouts. Okoro Emegha noted that some of the drug dealers were still at large, and urged the members of the public to always avail the security outfit of useful information that would lead to the arrest of criminal elements in the society, stressing that security is the business of all. He said, “As we have always said, security is everybody’s business. We got hints yesterday on a gang that specialises on this latest hard drug Mkpurummiri, and you can also see live ammunition here. “And I have to arrange these guys (Ebubeagu) to go to the community to see if we can get the gang. Then, very luckily, we caught them with all these items.
“Twelve of them are here, though there are still some of them that are at large, we promise strongly that we will do everything possible to get those at large. I want to use the opportunity to call on the public, information is very vital, a key to security. If we get the information, we will do the needful. If you help us on information, we help to sanitise the society, and with what you have seen now, we are going to hand them over to the police to do the needful. “As you can see, nobody will sa Ebubeagu is not giving helping hands to the security agents. Some people talk trash”. During an interview with one of the suspects, Orji Kalu, who hails from Afikpo South local government area, he said he was formally a dealer of Mkpurumiri, before he was made to stop dealing on the hard drug, which according to him, he heeded the advice. Other items recovered from the suspects include two live cartridges, charms among other dangerous items. 