… One killed as Aregbesola rejects results  BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola has emerged the flagbearer of the All Progressives Congress, ahead of the July 16 governorship election in the state. The governor was declared winner of the APC primary election which held across the state on Saturday having defeated his two other contenders, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti and Hon Lasun Yusuff. Announcing the result of the election at the APC state Secretariat, Osogbo, Chairman of the Electoral Committee and Governor of Kwara State, Mr Rasak Abdulrahaman said Governor Oyetola polled 222,169, while his closest rival, former Secretary to the state government, Adeoti scored 12,921. On his part, a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Lasun Yusuff polled 460. Reacting to the outcome of the election, Governor Oyetola saluted the peaceful conduct of members of the APC whom he said trooped out en masse to determine who will fly the party’s flag come July 16 this year. Governor Oyetola said the exercise was a step further in deepening democracy. Also, the Minister of Interior, Mr Rauf Aregbesola who is major backer of Adeoti alleged that the process was deliberately manipulated to ensure the emergence of the incumbent governor and considered legal means to reclaim mandate for his preferred aspirant. In a statement by his Media Adviser, Mr Sola Fasure, the minister said his group was studying the event and would soon take a decision. The APC was relatively peaceful across the state despite some complaints of results snatching in Iwo. Meanwhile, some women in Oyan, Odo-Otin Local Government Area of the state, who are loyalists of Aregbesola, complained that they could not find their names on the voter’s register. One man named Ojo Akinola was allegedly shot dead in Odogbo ward 06 of Atakunmosa East Local Government by some hoodlums. Akinola was allegedly shot dead at the voting centre after accreditation and voting had been completed. Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer, Osun State Command, Yemisi Opalola said the death was as a result of cult clash in the area. 