 The Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, was in Maiduguri on Thursday, to launch the 30th edition of the Federal Government’s Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Clinic during which he commissioned four out of over 500 projects executed by Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum. The Vice President arrived at Maiduguri around 11am and was received by Governor Zulum alongside Senator Kashim Shettima, national and state assembly members, other top government officials and party leaders. He arrived in the company of the Ministers of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Ambassador Maryam Katagun, Minister of state for Agriculture, Baba Shehuri who is from Borno, and some National Assembly members also from Borno. The Vice President drove from the airport to commission a newly built medical doctors quarters along the airport road in Maiduguri. The tastefully designed quarters comprise 78 units of three bedroom apartments from 13 blocks of two-storey buildings with each block having six apartments. The quarters were fully fenced, landscaped, flowered and provided with sporting facilities and a playground. Osinbajo then commissioned a shopping complex with 78 shops that are meant to be allocated to operators of small and medium businesses. Before continuing with commissioning of Zulum’s projects, the Vice President stopped over to address MSME’s at the Maiduguri GSM Market and gave them assurance of Buhari’s commitment towards supporting and empowering them. Vice President Osinbajo then paid another visit to the North East Children Learning Centre, which is a donor-funded primary to secondary school institution, privately initiated by the Vice President in March 2017 during his 60th birthday, to provide homes, education and entrepreneurship skills to 1,500 children orphaned by insurgency across the northeast. Osinbajo, who had visited the school on previous visits to Borno, interacted with orphans schooling at the centre. The Vice President is expected to unveil a mega size senior secondary school named after one of Borno’s foremost personalities, late Alhaji Mai Deribe. The fully fenced, landscaped and flowered school is made up of 30 classrooms for at least 1,200 students, three laboratories, administrative block and sporting facilities. Vice President Osinbajo will also commission Gonidamgari community road which passes communities that include Abbaganaram, Railway terminus, Borno Aluminium, down to Borno flour mill junction in Maiduguri. He will then launch the 30th edition of the Federal Government’s Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Clinic with more than 100 business owners to showcase their products and interact with federal officials involved with enhancing businesses for local consumption and export. 