 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Saturday unequivocally asserted his authority and leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as he ruthlessly brushed aside threats from his former boss and immediate past Governor of the state, Rauf Aregbesola, to emerged the flagbearer of the party, ahead of the July 16 governorship election in the state. The governor was declared winner of the APC primary election which held across the state having defeated his two other contenders, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti and Hon Lasun Yusuff. Announcing the result of the election at the APC State Secretariat, Osogbo, Chairman of the Electoral Committee and Governor of Kwara State, AbdulRazaq AbdulRahman, said Governor Oyetola polled 222,169, while his closest rival, former Secretary to the state government, Adeoti scored 12,921. On his part, a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Lasun Yusuff polled 460. Reacting to the outcome of the election, Governor Oyetola saluted the peaceful conduct of members of the APC whom he said trooped out en masse to determine who will fly the party’s flag come July 16 this year. He said the exercise was a step further in deepening democracy. However, the ex-Governor, who is also the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, the major backer of Adeoti, alleged that the process was deliberately manipulated to ensure the emergence of the incumbent governor and considered legal means to reclaim mandate for his preferred aspirant. In a statement by his Media Adviser, Mr Sola Fasure, the minister said his group was studying the event and would soon take a decision. It is no longer news that a deep crisis enveloped the Osun State Chapter of the ruling APC since Oyetola was elected in 2018. The feud between Governor Oyetola and Aregbesola had escalated with a barrage of verbal missile attacks and counter-attacks among loyalists of the two principal players in the state. The struggle for the ticket of the party ahead of the July 16 governorship election was at the centre of it all and has caused tension and fear among apolitical residents of the state. Aregbesola’s open declaration in Ilesa that he belongs to a caucus of the party called The Osun Progressives, TOP, working against the emergence of Oyetola, and that he recognised a factional Chairman of the party, Rasaq Salinsile, as the chairman of APC in the state heightened political tension ahead of the primary in the state last week. The minister accused Oyetola of waging war against him since he (Oyetola) became the governor adding that his successor destroyed his legacies despite working to ensure his emergence as governor in 2018. Aregbesola claimed he had begged Oyetola and even sent people to him to beg him on his behalf; still the governor rubbished all that he worked for during his eight years in office. To this end, Aregbesola vowed not to allow Oyetola to win the July 16 governorship election even if the governor succeeded in clinching the party’s ticket. He said Oyetola deviated from the core principles and values of the progressives and should not be allowed to contest again. A few days after, the campaign office of Aregbesola known as “Oranmiyan House” in Osogbo was attacked by some gunmen. Last Monday, few hours after Aregbesola announced that Adeoti would be the next governor of the state during a stakeholders’ meeting in the state, the minister came under attack by suspected armed thugs. The thugs launched a fierce attack on his convoy while he was raising his head out of the open-roof vehicle to wave at his supporters in Osogbo. But Aregbesola was rescued by his security men who shot sporadically into the air to resist the attackers. The incident caused pandemonium, as people around Orisunbare market- Old-garage area of the town around 7:00 pm scampered for safety. Aside from the fear the crisis had created in the minds of ordinary citizens of the state, another ugly implication of the political battle is that it has caused bad blood between two security agencies in the state – The Nigeria Police Force and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) as both contradicted themselves in the accounts they rendered after the shooting in Osogbo. Recall that NSCDC falls within the Interior Ministry led by Aregbesola. In a statement made available to newsmen by the spokesperson of the police command, Yemisi Opalola, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Olawale Olokode had alleged that the minister was moving with security and some unidentified thugs when the incident happened. The CP said Aregbesola’s security details were shooting without provocation, adding that the former governor was not attacked by any thug. But speaking on the contrary, the Osun NSCDC Commandant Emmanuel Ocheja claimed that “unknown hoodlums” attacked the convoy of Aregbesola. In a statement made available to journalists by the spokesperson of the command, Atanda Olabisi, the NSCDC alleged that it was an attack on Aregbesola but his security details were able to disperse the hoodlums. Aregbesola’s camp has accused the police of refusing to allow police to be part of its escorts during their programmes and tour. Checks by our correspondent revealed that Aregbesola’s faction has been protected by civil defence officers while policemen and men of Amotekun are dominant among those providing security for Oyetola. Also, infighting between the principal officers, controversial shootings and alleged harassment have brought about a season of protests and counter-protests in the state to the extent that some students were allegedly sponsored to stage a protest. Students under the aegis of the National Association of Osun State Students (NAOSS) and National Association of Nigeria Students/Joint Campus Committee, (Osun Axis) stormed NSCDC command headquarters in Osogbo and protested against the corps for allegedly shooting and causing panic in the state capital during a roadshow conducted by Aregbesola. Minutes after the protest, a group, Concerned Citizens of Osun, alleged that the state government gave a sum of N1million to the leadership of the students to protest at the headquarters of the corps. The group in a statement signed by its Public Relations Officer, Afeez Olakunle, expressed concern that the state government was dragging students into the internal crisis of the APC in the state. It further alleged that an unnamed aide to Osun state governor worked with NAOSS leadership to stage the protest, insisting that protest against NSCDC was politically motivated. But NAOSS President, Moshood Yusuf, challenged the group to bring out proof that he collected money to mobilise students for the protest, claiming that they were not sponsored to stage the protest. In what appeared like a counter-protest, members of APC loyal to Aregbesola, while armed with placards bearing several inscriptions, stormed the state police command headquarters and protested against their alleged incessant arrest and harassment by the police. The APC faction, led by its Chairman, Rasaq Salinsile, demanded the redeployment of the Police Commissioner, Olawale Olokode. The protesters accused the CP of playing the script of Governor Oyetola and condemned the police’s position on the shooting incident, saying there was no investigation into the incident before the command drew a conclusion. But the command, after receiving a copy of the petition against Olokode denied the allegation of bias levelled against it. The Deputy Commissioner of Police, Valentine Kanayo who addressed the protesters said, “The Osun State Police Command is not an appendage of any political party. I will not like a situation whereby one is called bad names; just call a dog a bad name to finish it. I was attentive to your speech. Permit me to say that your speech is circumstantially biased. We are not biased. We monitor all events going on. Every request made by parties or individuals is treated.” But Aregbesola had insisted that Oyetola should forget governing Osun a second time because of the same treatment that Tinubu and his group meted out to former Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, will be given to him because he (Oyetola) has derailed and betrayed him. He also alleged that Oyetola ostracised his core loyalists from the scheme of things. Addressing party faithful ahead of the APC primary, the minister who spoke in Yoruba, subtly blasted Tinubu and said the presidential aspirant would be brought down since had equated himself with God. The minister said: “It is possible some share your ideals and it’s also possible some do not. This happened in Lagos recently. There was a governor (Ambode) who wanted to seek re-election and the party declined and showed him the way out with their votes. So, the same way it was in Lagos then, is exactly the way it is in Osun today. What is good for the goose is also good for the gander. It cannot be the turn of your younger brother now and you change the rules. “We took over government on November 27, 2010 and by 28th, we announced that whoever sought revenge would be struck down by God. We only handed over to God, those who made us suffer. After we served for eight years, it wasn’t only party members that benefitted from our administration, the entire state did. I went everywhere in Osun with projects. The Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Ismail Omipidan has declared that Aregbesola is not God and cannot determine the fate of Oyetola in the state. He said: “the general belief among most Africans that ‘a man’s life is preordained and ruled by God’ has continued to play out in the political trajectory of Governor Oyetola of Osun. “From 2011 when he was appointed chief of staff to 2018 when, against all odds, he emerged, first as the candidate of the APC, and later, governor of the state, at a time many thought it was all over for him, it was obvious that he was on a divine political course. “My principal has absolute faith in God and the people of Osun. In these last three years-plus, the people can tell the difference in terms of responsible and responsive governance and politics.” A former deputy governor in the state, Senator Iyiola Omisore, is among the strong politicians behind Oyetola in Osun. Omisore was the candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in 2018. He is teaming up with Oyetola for the coming election. Omisore said his major focus now is to ensure that Oyetola is re-elected during the July 16 governorship election in the state. Another consequence of the crisis is that it would give the major opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party, a better chance in the governorship election as aggrieved members, especially those on Aregbesola’s camp may defect. With the body language and utterances of Aregbesola, it’s a fight to the finish. This means that APC in the state may remain factionalised before and after the governorship election. Amid allegations of importing thugs into the state in the run-up to the primary, residents would be left to bear the brunt of thuggery after Saturday’s gubernatorial primary.  And they are sure to pay the price in the form of being terrorised and the robbing of innocent residents. Feelers said petitions and legal tussles would greet the outcome of the primary and they may extend till and after the poll. 