 BY OIKONOMIA WITH LEKAN SOTE Africa has a lot going for a quest to be the richest continent in the world, if it so desires. It’s no news that when compared to other continents, Africa has a relatively youthful population. This suggests a future of energy and ability to learn new technologies faster. And nearly all experts report that Africa has mineral resources that can be converted for use in manufacturing production machineries and consumer goods. Think of the iron, aluminum, bauxite, copper, gold, diamond, petroleum deposits and the agricultural crops that can adequately feed its agro-allied industries. For instance, South Africa, just one African country, has the largest gold deposit in the world. Records indicate that South Africa has produced more than 40 per cent of the world’s total gold sold to date. As for petroleum, Libya, Nigeria and Algeria, respectively have 48.3 billion or 2.9 per cent; 37. 07 billion or 2.2 per cent; and 22.2 billion or 0.7 percent, of the world’s petroleum deposit. If added together these three countries own 92 billion or 5.90 per cent of the world’s petroleum deposit. If you add petroleum deposit in Angola, Sudan, Egypt, Uganda, Gabon, Congo DRC, Equatorial Guinea, Ghana, Tunisia, Cameroon, Niger Republic, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, South Africa, Benin Republic, Morocco and Ethiopia, Africa has roughly 7.763 per cent of the world’s petroleum deposit– nearly one-twelfth of the world’s deposit. Please do not be fooled by the hysteria of the climate change lobby, petroleum will still be in use for a long time to come. Of the 1.46 billion automobiles in the world only about 6.8 million are electric cars. Consider also the inventory of aircrafts, ships, boats and manufacturing plants and machineries still in use throughout the world. It will take a very long time to retire and replace these equipment. As for diamonds, Africa is responsible for about 73 per cent of the world’s production, with Botswana, Congo DRC and South Africa being respectively responsible for 34, 31 and 8 per cent. And Nigeria, Sudan, Ethiopia, Niger Republic, Tanzania, South Africa, Uganda, Morocco, Algeria, Cameroon, Kenya, Mozambique, Chad, Tunisia and Ivory Coast have 10.90 per cent of the world’s arable land. The Food and Agriculture Organisation defines arable land as agricultural land occupied by crops, both sown and harvested, during the same agricultural year. It also includes land devoted to feeding agricultural animals. With its population of almost 60 per cent or 726 million under 25 years old, out of a population of 1.216 billion, Africa is the continent of youths. It’s more pronounced with the figure of those between the ages of 15 and 24 being about 226 million, or 18.6 per cent, going by 2015 reports. The projection is that by 2030, youths, with a nominal figure in excess of the current 226 million, will be higher than 42 per cent of Africa’s population. That assumes that there are no drops in childbirths as more females spend longer time in tertiary institutions.