 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The presidential aspiration of the National leader of the All Progressives Congress ahead of the 2023 General Elections, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu received boost in Osun State on Thursday during his visit to the palace of the Ooni of Ife in Ile-Ife, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi and Owa Obokun of Ijesaland, Oba Gabriel Adekunle Aromolaran in Ilesa. The two monarchs rained prayers on the former governor of Lagos State and assured him of victory on his bid to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. Earlier, Tinubu had been received by the Governor of the state, Gboyega Oyetola and his wife, Kafayat. Addressing Oba Ogunwusi and other monarchs in Ile-Ife, Tinubu said Nigerian youths claim to be next in line to rule the nation but there is nothing to show the youths have the character and other quality to occupy a presidential position like that of Nigeria. He said he possesses the requisite qualities to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari and added that his reign would be peaceful and prosperous. He urged the monarchs not to allow the presidential opportunity to pass the Southwest by. “The major reason why I am here (Ooni’s palace) today is to seek for the blessings and prayers of you all (Ooni and other monarchs in attendance). In 2013, we went to all states to campaign for President Buhari, we stood by him and in 2015, he won the Presidential election. We did the same thing for him again in 2019 for his second term bid. “The constitution stated two terms which is 8 years for the seat. After 8 years, you are expected to vacate the position for someone else to occupy it. It is almost time for him to complete serving his terms. So, I decided to show interest in contesting for the position. I can’t attain the position alone except the you all and your support. “This Presidential position must not pass us by. They must hand it over to us and I am the one that want to collect it by occupying the position. I am here because I want to become the next President of Nigeria and l am pleading that you have mercy on me by praying for me and by giving me your blessing. “Youths claims to be the next in line but they’re not showing it in their character, because tolerance, endurance, perseverance, consistency, ability, see good things and identify with it, leadership quality that must be with you is not just a gift, is endowed, I am begging to tolerate and make peace part of your master plan, you will be there. “I am here standing before you, I have been a youth and I am a youth, so, for you to be a president or governor, you have to work for it, you have to demonstrate the quality character and intelligent to govern people and to manage people. In Nigeria we have a great resources base, human material and individual but to earnest it, and move from prosperity to serious happiness, we have to play the politics of tolerance, is not about religion, is not about fame, we don’t have to have conflicts, we don’t have to have disagreement.” After Tinubu had informed Oba Ogunwusi of his desire to become the next president of the country, the monarch went spiritual and started praying for his dream to come true. Oba Ogunwusi assures Tinubu that he would become the next president adding that the deities of the Yoruba race would assist him. He told Tinubu: “You have come to the Odua’s temple to receive blessings and we are so glad to receive you. You are our pride, you are our glory and by the power of Olodumare, your star won’t be extinguished. Your star will continue to blossom. You will continue to blossom and be influential. God will make your dream come true. All the deities of Yoruba land will make your dream come true. The presidency you are aiming will be possible and befitting.” When the presidential hopeful arrived the palace of Oba Aromolaran in Ilesa, he eulogised the monarch and formally disclosed his desire to be the next president. He said, “your majesty, you are a very strong paramount ruler off Yorubaland. You are a democrat. You left the intellectual environment to become the Oba, to be able to have that force and impactful advice for generation across. So of the things you told us are still happening, some of the things your advocated are what we are still holding on to. You held on to truth, integrity, character, and great wisdom in pursuit of the success of your people. We respect you for that. “I have met with you many times, you insisted on character building and progress of Ijesa people’s and. Nigeria. A new hope is springing up for this country. I am looking for prosperity and progress for our country, and I have a great ambition to become a successor to Buhari in APC. I have told Buhari that all I want to do is to step into his shoes but not step on his toes. I am capable, competent and I have the capacity with a great record. They can say whatever they want but I am ready. I said from a philosopher’s quote that when you are in politics and you are about to wrestle in the mud with the pig, you must be ready to take the mud from the pig, get roughed and smelly but after victory, you go and clean up and build a new hope for people. I want to become the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and I cannot do it without prayers from your experience, from your institution and from your age. You blessing, your support, your encouragement.” However, in the same vein, Oba Aromolaran prayed for Tinubu and assured him of victory. 