 The Academic Staff Union of Universities, Obafemi Awolowo University, has attributed the problem being encountered on the earned academic allowance to the institution’s Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Eyitope Ogunbodede, explaining that the latter is a member of Congress of University Academics, a rival union. During a peaceful protest on the university campus, on Thursday, the OAU ASUU Chairman, Dr Adeola Egbedokun, alleged that the VC’s membership of CONUA made it difficult for ASUU members in the school to get its dues. According to him, it is for this reason that students of the institution are currently not receiving lectures. “This is not the first time that EAA will be disbursed to federal universities. The money was released on 12th December, 2021 and many universities, I can say 98 per cent, paid before the end of 2021. It is only OAU that split up till now because of one reason. “Our Vice-Chancellor is a member of a group which do not align with the struggle of ASUU, named CONUA. Each time we have a meeting with the VC, he would be giving us the condition of CONUA as if the group is superior to ASUU. “We (ASUU) fought for this money and we should lead on how this money should be disbursed. We use to disburse EAA based on the template that is submitted by ASUU and not any group. If they have the capacity, they should demand theirs. This is our money. ASUU’s share must be disbursed to us. “This action was supported by the national body of ASUU. We have no fear; the strike is indefinite. We have in attendance leadership of ASUU in Ibadan, Lagos, Benin and Akure zone at our congress today,” said Egbedokun. In his reaction, the Public Relations Officer of the university, Abiodun Olarewaju, said that every academic member was backed by law to align with any union. “In OAU, our academics belong to two factions of union which are ASUU and CONUA. Since the EAA is not on the union basis, we believe that every member of academic union of the university, particularly those who earned it, is entitled. “Unlike before when both unions agreed on a template, this time around, they disagreed on which template to adopt for the payment, hence, we decided that they should both go and harmonise their position and come out with a template which would be used to pay the money. It is not in our character to hold unto such money,” he said. 