As Buni, again, meets Ganduje, Shekarau, others  BY MOYINOLUWA BAMIDELE-LUCAS The search for peace in the Kano State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) continued at the weekend as the Yobe State Governor and Chairman APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Mai Mala Buni, again met with Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and a former governor of the state, Mallam Ibrahim Shekarau and other top chieftains of the party. A source familiar with the goings-on told The Point that the ruling party is very particular about the Kano Chapter because “it is one chapter that it cannot afford to fold its hand and allow anything to go amiss or leave the situation unattended.” The source which craved anonymity said for two major reasons, the CECPC  chairman is determined to resolve the crisis bedeviling the Kano state chapter of the party. He listed the major reason as the desire of the party chairman, Mai Buni, to ensure that “not an inch of the party’s territory is conceded or allowed to be taken over by the opposition but rather that the APC continues to make substantial foray into the opposition’s territory.” The second reason being that the “days of allowing states like Zamfara and Rivers to be picked up on a platter by the opposition as if APC never existed as witnessed during the days the former national chairman of the party are over for good. If any state must be lost, it must be through legitimate struggle and not the failure to resolve internal crises,” the source maintained. The meeting, it was learnt, lasted for more than five hours at the Yobe State Governor’s lodge in Abuja. It was further learnt that both factions presented their full demands during the meeting.  The two warring factions also suggested ways out of the quagmire that will eventually result in an amicable and lasting resolution of the disagreement. The source explained that the national officers of the party in attendance assured the two factions that their submissions would be studied and another meeting would be called to forge ahead till peace is achieved.
“The national leadership of the party has promised to study all the proposals presented at the meeting and take a definite stand that will be communicated to the two parties at a meeting to be convened at a later date soon,” the source said. Governor Buni was joined by Governor of Zamfara state Bello Matawalle and Yakubu Dogara to broker peace between the Ganduje and Shekarau factions. 