 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State, who is seeking reelection has declared that he would clinch the party ticket at the end of the ongoing governorship primary across the state. Speaking on Saturday in his Iragbiji hometown, Oyetola said the ongoing exercise has been peaceful despite speculation of violence. The result of the election at Ward 08, Ifofin in Ilesa East Local Government Area of the state, disclosed that the governor gannered 309 votes to defeat his close rival, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, the preferred aspirant of the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola who got 146 votes. Ward 08 is Aregbesola’s voting centre. Addressing newsmen, Oyetola said, “Let me say that the turnout has been meaningful, and I thank God that we were able to do it peacefully. All the members of the party have the opportunity to decide who will carry the flag of the party. I happened to be one of the aspirants as well and I don’t expect anything less. “I want to appeal to all our people all over the state to please maintain peace. This election process should not be a battle field. It’s should not be a do or die affair. There should be no violence. Let everybody have the opportunity of participating in his choice of who should be the candidate of our party. I think that’s the process and I think it has gone very well contrary to the speculation. “I have called some number of places in the state and I think it has been a peaceful conduct of the process.” When asked to react to allegations by members of The Osun Progressives (TOP) that their agents were not allowed to stay at voting centres, Oyetola said, “Well, that’s not my job, it’s their choice. I mean we had the stakeholders meeting yesterday (Friday), we are all expected to have our agents around here, perhaps for whatever reason to decide not to be part of it, so I’m not bothered at all. On rumoured violence, he said, “God is always in control, absolutely in control. Why should there be violence. The question of picking a candidate for the party, why should there be violence? I don’t see the reasons for that.” “I will win by the grace of God. I want to appeal to all of us to see this issue as a family affair. It’s APC all through. We should brace up for the challenge ahead. We are going to face another party in this campaign we don’t know yet. “I want to appeal to them to ensure that we have opportunity for reconciliation. It’s a family thing.” 