.. as Ila Constituency endorses Oyetola for second term  BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Chief Press Secretary to Osun Governor, Ismail Omipidan, has declared that former governor of the state and Interior Minister, Rauf Aregbesola, is not God and therefore, could not determine the fate of his principal, Adegboyega Oyetola. He said this on Tuesday while fielding questions from journalists in Ila, on the sidelines of the Ila Federal Constituency stakeholders’ meeting. According to him, “The general belief among most Africans that ‘a man’s life is preordained and ruled by God’ has continued to play out in the political trajectory of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun. “From 2011 when he was appointed Chief of Staff to 2018 when, against all odds, he emerged, first as the candidate of the APC, and later, Governor of the State, at a time when many thought it was all over for him, it was obvious that he was on a divine political course. “My Principal has absolute faith in God and the people of Osun. In these last three years plus, the people can tell the difference in terms of responsible and responsive governance and politics. “Before we came in, Osun West was literally neglected in terms of infrastructure. But since we came in, we have done roads that had been abandoned for close to 20 years in that district. This, perhaps, explains why leaders and critical stakeholders from the area are already appealing to themselves to allow Oyetola take another shot at the governorship for the second term. “Just about a week ago, the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi, charged the people of the town to vote for incumbent Governor Oyetola. “Oluwo, who advised his subjects not to waste their resources and energy working against the re-election bid of the governor, said only those who are not interested in the growth and development of the town in particular and Osun State in general would want to run against Oyetola. “The royal father said by the special Grace of God and the support of the people of Osun, Oyetola will be re-elected to consolidate the achievements he has so far recorded. Now, Aregbesola’s anointed candidate is from Iwo. So you be the judge. “As the 2022 governorship contest draws closer, like the saying goes, there is no point comparing the sun with the moon, both shine when it is their time. For now, it’s Oyetola’s sun that is shining by the permission and Grace of God and the power of the people of Osun. And as the majority are already saying, this sun will shine beyond 2022. “Therefore, it is God and Osun people that will determine Oyetola’s fate, not an individual trying to play God,” Omipidan said. Meanwhile, the leadership and members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ila Federal Constituency comprising Ila, Ifedayo and Boluwaduro Local Government Areas of Osun on Tuesday passed vote of confidence in the Governor Oyetola-led government in the state. The loyalists of the ruling party in the Federal Constituency also endorsed the governor for second term, saying his convincing modest achievements are sine qua non for return for second term by the citizens. The decision of the APC chieftains and members was a follow-up to the strategic engagement tour to the Federal Constituency by the Governor a few days ago as it was aimed to affirm their position to get the Governor returned. The party loyalists disclosed this during a stakeholders’ meeting of the leadership of the party in the Federal Constituency held at the residence of the former Governor of the State, Chief Bisi Akande, in Ila-Orangun. Reading the communique of the meeting, the Deputy Speaker, Osun House of Assembly, Hon. Femi Popoola, said the leadership and members of the party endorsed the Governor for a second term in office, having monitored, evaluated and reviewed his remarkable performance in the last three years. 