 BY
AKINWALE ABOLUWADE Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, on Friday, announced that his government would release the sum of N136 million as grant to upgrade infrastructure at the Oyo State College of Education, Lanlate. Makinde, who said that the main focus of his administration was to ensure that no zone in the state was left behind in terms of development, added that his agenda to ensure security and fix infrastructural deficit in the state was on track. The governor stressed that the state government would work with the local government to embark on a rehabilitation of the Eruwa/Maya Road in bid to open the axis up to development. Makinde spoke in Lanlate, Ibarapa East Local Government Area of the state, during an on-the-spot-visit to the area. According to him, N36 million would be released as capital expenditure for the infrastructural development of the institution, while N100 million would serve as take-off grant to address the challenges of the institution. Fifty million Naira would be released immediately out of the take-off grant, while the remaining N50 million would be released in the second half of the year. Makinde appealed to the striking staff of the institution, saying that they should call off the strike in the interest of the students. He stated, “I came here to have an on-the-spot assessment of the challenges and the issues that this institution is faced with, which are not allowing the institution to fulfill its mandate. “When I was campaigning to get elected as the governor of the state, I met this JAC leadership and the new chairman of JAC. When we were putting together the Governing Council for the institution, I invited them and we sat on my dining table. “We kept asking for their input. For us as an administration, we know and we confirm that we are not the most intelligent, so we want everybody to come on board. “We are not ones to trade blames or to say oh, you are still being owed arrears from 2011. In 2011, I was contesting to go to the Senate and I lost. So, if you are owed from 2011 to 2021, that is 10 years and then you mentioned the arrears of promotion and also consequential adjustment to minimum wage. There are challenges but the approach to addressing those challenges matters. “I will provide a N100 million take off grant, there will be a condition to access it. I am ready to release N50 million immediately and N50 million by half of the year but you must do something. The representative of the students, the representative of JAC, the governing council and the Lanlante progressive unions will be the ones to administer this N100 million. “You will identify projects that will lead to comfort on this campus. As soon as you have that committee set up, we will release the first tranche of N50 million. “Finally, I want JAC to reach out to the staff and let them call off the strike immediately. And, to the Lanlate Community, the main objective of this administration is that no zone or community in Oyo State must be left behind. So, for Lanlate, one of the things that we know for sure is, where you have infrastructure and a secured environment, development will follow.” 