Abuja rice pyramid fictitious, deceptive – Stakeholders
We’re not allowed access to our farms, farmers lament
Citizens blame poor government policies
‘Government only interested in politics for now’  BY AUGUSTINE AVWODE, BAMIDELE FAMOOFO, TIMOTHY AGBOR, AGNES NWORIE AND BRIGHT JACOB Insecurity, Covid-19 pandemic, policy failures, high costs of agricultural items and lack of involvement of youths in farming have all been identified among factors that may plunge the nation into a serious food crisis very soon. Some farmers, in exclusive interviews, told The Point that the country might be courting acute food insecurity if these impediments are not addressed.
The Chairman, Pig Farmers Association of Nigeria in Osun State, Mike Adebomi said, “The problem of food crisis or shortages is multi-dimensional but the major cause is the militia crisis in the North, including kidnapping, Fulani herdsmen rampage and Boko Haram insurgency, among others. The farming system in the North has been reduced drastically and the majority of the products that we use for farming come from the North. “In those days, we bought a bag of wheat products that we use for animals for about N1, 000 and N1,200, but as I speak today, it’s about N6,500. So, there is no way we can use that one for animals that are not going to increase the price of our products as well. The GNC prices have changed from N1,500 to N3,500. Soya beans per kilo, as at this time last year, was N250 but now, it’s N500. All these products are produced from the North and the farmers are not allowed access to the farm. If they don’t have access to the farm, there is no way it won’t affect everything that they produce in poultry.” He said this just as many respondents noted that the crisis might worsen, owing to “the fact that Government is only interested in how to retain power for now”, and not finding ways of tackling the impending disaster. On what the government and other stakeholders should do to tackle this menace, Adebomi said, “The thing to do is to ensure that the country is stable, security-wise, so that the farmers can have access to their farms because if that’s not done, every other thing would be affected. “Also, our young graduates are not encouraged to go into farming. Most of them are into ‘Yahoo Yahoo’. I think the government should find a way of empowering youths to go into farming and give them the assurance that when they get to farms, their lives will be safe. Their lives must be secure if they will go into the bush to farm. “One of the policy failures is that the government has neglected us (pig farmers) maybe because of religious sentiment. I am expecting the government to help pig farmers. Aside from religious sentiments, pigs are one of the best meats. Now that the cow has gotten to where it is, I think the government needs to diversify to pork. At least, more than 40 per cent of Nigerians are not religiously biased to eating pork, so, the government should release the burden placed on beef and chicken and support farming of pigs.” A rice farmer, Ismail Ayodele, said the causes of food shortage “are connected to the issue of insecurity and attacks that farmers suffer at the hands of bandits and bush burning.” He stated, “I bought two bags of fertilizers for N30,000. In the good old days, this N30,000 will buy 10 bags for me. The cost of diesel has increased. We have to base the cost of production on the cost of products and the cost of inputs. “The government will have to rise up to the occasion and ensure that farmers are safe on the farms, especially when we talk about large-scale farmers in the northern part of the country. I read about a farmer who planted 50 bags of rice whereas as a farmer in the south if I harvest 50 bags of rice, I am a millionaire; and that person lost the entire harvest to bandits. So, let the Federal Government work on security. Let the farmers be safe on their farms and the government should work on security. Government should also subsidise agriculture inputs. Food security entails affordability and availability. “The rice pyramid is a good development, but it’s like a drop in the ocean when we talk about the government’s efforts on making food available. If the total bags of rice assembled there were two million, to a population of 200 million; that means it will be a bag to about 10 people and how long would that last a family? So, it’s still insignificant but it’s a good beginning. I think if we continue to build on that, definitely, it will increase food production in the country.” An agricultural expert, Festus Oladipo, called on the government to embark on policies that are sustaining and enduring. He said most agricultural practices and efforts of the government were only seen on pages of the newspapers and other media outlets, adding that the government should assist farmers and encourage young people to venture into agriculture. Also, the prices of soybean and maize, which are the basic grains in poultry production, have increased by about 300 per cent and 170 per cent, respectively, warranting the collapse of many poultry farms across the country. Investigations by The Point show that the worst-hit farms are those operated by small-scale poultry farmers, as most dealers in this category had closed shop due to their inability to purchase feeds. It was also discovered that the cost of production in poultry farming was about 80 per cent grain-based and that these grains were maize and soybeans.
Farmers in this sector lament that the prices of grains were why the costs of eggs and chicken had been increasing steadily, stressing that poultry farmers in Nigeria were suffering the brunt. They noted that the micro-ingredients for poultry were completely imported, as sourcing foreign exchange had remained a problem. Director, LATIA Global Investment Limited and the National Vice President, Tilapia Aquaculture Developers Association Nigeria, Nurudeen Tiamiyu, told The Point that the food crisis and food shortages facing the country were due to many reasons. He said, “The reasons are many but I will talk about a few. We came from the Covid-19 crisis, which restricted farmers’ access to farms based on logistics. Farmers that were struggling before, then practically went down. The insecurity that is ravaging the country did further damage because people couldn’t go to their farms in the North where the bulk of the food is produced. The policies guiding farming are done by those in the banks and government circle and not by the farmers’ forum across the country to understand farming finance and financing. The ease of capital injection is being hampered by the wrong policy regimes of this government. For example, why invest in Tilapia and the same government allows cheap ones to come from China. No major investors will put money into it with such a policy in place. Farming is still largely dependent on rainfall. We have irrigation here and there but the best policy is to have zero duty on solar power water pumps that can assist farmers in communities where there are no dams. The Covid-19 agriculture intervention came too late to farmers and it is the reason we are not seeing the results in production or major output across the country.” Tiamiyu said the prospect facing the country in the next few years was grim. He laughed off the National Bureau of Statistics’ inflation figures as unrealistic and blamed the falling purchasing power of individuals for the inability of farmers to increase output. “It is grimy really. You can see that as the national inflation is going down on the NBS table, prices are not going down in reality. Farmers are not up to what they were doing before because purchasing power is dwindling and farmers are not getting a good return on their activities. Many farmers are reducing production and cycle. If things don’t turn around, many farmers will reduce farm size or leave totally. But it’s not doom.  We have some that are also just entering to fill the void,” he explained. To mitigate the impending disaster, Tiamiyu suggested, “There is a need for more Extension Officers to monitor and give feedback on the interventions that are coming from the government. Farmers should be able to use their rural lands as security for loans. Single digits loans of not more than 5% should be given to the real farmers. There also needs to be a separation in running cost and capital cost in loans given to farmers. Capital loans should be a long-term loan that should be for about 7/10 year tenor.” He added emphatically that there had been policy failures and wondered what value 36 state ministries of agriculture and one federal ministry had added to the food security programme in Nigeria. “With 37 ministries of Agric (Federal and States), Nigerians really shouldn’t face the prospect of food shortages and hunger, no, we should not. When this government came in, I expected that there would have been a retreat involving all state commissioners of agriculture with the ministers of agriculture and finance having the CBN team in such meetings to discuss synergies and collaboration. But we never saw this.” The recent Abuja Rice Pyramids show, according to him, was “just a show.” Also speaking to The Point newspaper, Uyakunmor Godwin, Managing Director, Rosevalley Farms Limited, lamented the pains and rough times farmers were going through. He blamed multiple factors for the spiraling food prices in the country. “These are not the best of times for farmers. The food crisis is attributable to multiple factors, most prominent being farmers-herders clash, kidnapping, hoarding, Covid-19 lockdown and, of course, government policies,” he noted. Underscoring the severity of the situation at hand, he said, “It is a very serious situation. In my over 20 years in agriculture, I have not experienced a situation like this. In the poultry sector, a lot of farms have closed down. Others have downsized. This is due to the non-availability of grains at an affordable price. The same is happening in the fishery sector. In most cases, farmers are closing shop and relocating to greener pastures. The truth of the matter is that it is not a disaster waiting to happen, it has happened already. “Gradually the reality will be obvious for all to see. One of the steps to mitigate the effect is to allow for controlled importation of grains over a specific period of time. Presently, hoarders are having a field time because of the policy of ban on importation.” He also faulted poorly thought-out policies as one of the factors responsible for the current situation. “Of course, there are failures in policies. For instance, the government failed to properly assess the situation before placing a ban on some of the products. Also, most of the intervention policies targeted at farmers have been hijacked by politicians and civil servants. “The Ministry of Agriculture both at the Federal and the states have not lived up to expectation. Even as a farmer, I don’t know the Minister for Agriculture. This is because; the ministry is not known to be relevant to the yearnings and aspirations of farmers. “As for the Rice Pyramids, that was a show of shame. Most Nigerians don’t know. The Rice farmers owe NIRSAL Microfinance Bank huge sums of money that can never be repaid. The pyramids are make-believe that these loans were used to provide rice for Nigerians. The chicken will soon come home to roost,” he concluded. Ayodele Ojo, a journalist turned farmer, also lamented the grim fortunes of farmers in Nigeria. “A few years ago, farming was more endearing. This encouraged someone like me to venture into it, though l was born into farming. But recent events in the industry have forced many farmers to close businesses,” he lamented. Ojo noted that the major problem many poultry farmers encountered had to do with feeds, saying the cost had gone up astronomically whereas the quality had gone down. Ojo stated, “A 25kg bag of layer mash for laying birds was between N2,600 and N3,000 in 2019/2020. Today, the same 25kg goes for N6,300 and above. Unfortunately, the quality has gone down with resultant effects on production and the health of the birds. “The millers blame this on farm inputs – maize, soya and others. They said that they were not available and expensive. The small millers where small farmers patronise have closed shops. Even the cost of feeds for those in piggery is also way high. “As at 2021, a tone of PKC was N40, 000, the same sells for N80, 000 today. On my part, I have been able to weather the storm through the grace of God and our capacity. I operate on a medium scale. The unfortunate thing is that many struggling farmers have been pushed out of business because of the high cost of feed and lack of access to finance. There is so much noise about government programmes, but many who are really into farming can’t access the intervention programmes.” Adeleke Tayo, Secretary, Fish Farmers Association, Mowe, also bemoaned the situation. He said the situation at hand now was very tough for the small-scale fish farmers who do not have the wherewithal in terms of finance to cope with the rising cost of production in the industry. “Costs have risen so high that a bag of fish feed going for about N2,500 has increased to N11, 000. A farmer who needed between N300,000 and N400,000 to raise 1,000 units of fish from juvenile to point of sale will now need about N700,000 to achieve that feat. “As a result of rising costs and unavailability of funding to continue, many of our members can no longer continue in business while the few that are still holding on have reduced their scale of production drastically. “I believe the government must be concerned about our situation to provide funding for us to be able to continue doing business. We want them (government) to come up with policies that will make raw materials for feed readily available to feed millers at very affordable prices. “On our own part, we have started discussing with companies who manufacture/sell feed milling machines and equipment to see how we can partner to be able to begin to produce feeds of our own and sell to our members at affordable rates so we can remain in business.” Ebonyi State Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Moses Ogodoali –Nome, faulted the government for being behind food insecurity in Nigeria. He said, “When talking about food insecurity in Nigeria, I would say that the government is behind it because they allow a lot of foreign foods to enter the country and that makes our farmers weak. If you go to the farm and suffer to produce the food, you wouldn’t see people buying them. The people would prefer to buy foreign products. This not only cuts deep in the country’s economy but it makes farming less lucrative. “Anytime there is an increase in prices of food products, the following year there would be food sufficiency in circulation because people will be compelled to make use of all available lands to cultivate. In 2019, when the government banned the importation of rice, anywhere you went in 2020, you would see rice farms. Because of that, people smiled to the banks with a lot of proceeds from their farms. That is a motivation for people to go to the farm.  Secondly, there is no check of inflation in Nigeria. When prices of other goods increase, the farmer will have no choice but to increase that of his/ her farm products because we go to the same market, our children go to the same schools. Our people should be made to believe in what we can produce. The country has the capacity to produce what will sustain us. Why do we allow people to import rice, maize or even flour? By importing, we enrich other people’s economies and impoverish ours. “There should be incentives for real farmers and it should be distributed early enough for better use. I advocate that the quest for white-collar jobs be reduced by making Agriculture a means of diversifying Nigeria’s economy, and also making it attractive and lucrative for youths to happily venture into. Government can also allocate lands, money and improved crops to the youths for take-off. “Aims behind the recently launched rice pyramid can be achieved only when the importation of local foods stops and the Nigerian farmers are supported to sufficiently feed the citizens. There should be a ban on the importation of all local foods produced in Nigeria like rice, maize, millet, wheat, onions, and tomatoes, among others. Let’s move to the farm as a people.” Acting President, Mega Rice Producers in Nigeria, Ebere Orji, suggested that for there to be a boost in food sufficiency, all the youths should be gainfully engaged by the government. According to him, engaging the youths in agriculture will not only boost food sufficiency but also reduce crime rates to the barest minimum. He said, “Government should be honest with its policies. Youths should be gainfully engaged in the farm. A gainfully employed youth will not have time for thuggery among other crimes. Nigeria is a blessed country. The problems we have are those we generate. Let’s learn how to be honest in this country. Sometimes, the Federal Government will make provision for loans and grants for farmers, but before it reaches the end-users, the farming season is over and most times, it will be diverted to political farmers. If incentives like machines, improved seedlings are made available to the real farmers early enough, food insecurity will be controlled. “Government should be off-takers. In the Netherlands, the government sells rice, not farmers, because the government prepares the environment, provides machines and everything needed. So all the farmer has to do is to go and farm. In the end, the government will also buy off the products from the farmers. Government needs to call agriculture a business so that people will see it as such, but when they speak all kinds of grammar before the press and do a totally different one afterward, we shall remain where we are. Agriculture is my business and I believe in it, I believe if our government should be honest with the citizens in its agricultural policies, things will get better for all of us.” “Irrigation farming is another good farm practice that will help us in rapid production of foods. Our Senators and House of Assembly members in the South-East should be up and doing in the provision of irrigation and farming equipment like their counterparts in the North. With that in place, we can farm twice or thrice yearly. Concerning the recently launched rice pyramid by the Federal Government, I advise that we stop deceiving ourselves,” he added. National Secretary, Small-Scale Women Farmers Organisations of Nigeria, Nnenna Oluchi- Ibiam, in her intervention, solicited for provision of gender-friendly machines for women in agriculture since they constitute over 70 per cent of the Nigerian population and are readily available. “SWOFON advocates for women farmers, especially those in the rural areas, to spur rural village economic development and increase food production. To that effect, we suggest the provision of gender-friendly machines for women in agriculture and a specific line budget specified for SWOFON women in agriculture by the Federal Government. “We demand training and retraining of farmers on modern developmental agricultural trends to build the capacity of smallholder farmers and influence policies towards sustainable agriculture in Nigeria,” she pleaded. Solomon Elutidoye, President, Mowe-Ofada Fish Farmers Association, identified feed as the major challenge faced by fish farmers. He told The Point, “The major challenge is the rising cost of production coming mainly from the feed. We experience price increases almost every week and now the feed millers no longer notify us when they want to increase the price because it is becoming too frequent. “On the part of the feed millers, they complain about the rising cost of import of materials they use to make the feeds. When this happens, we are the ones that bear the brunt because they will definitely transfer the cost to us the farmers that rear the fish. “Another major issue we contend with is that of the middlemen. They also want to rip us off. They are never ready to have costs transferred to them, rather they want to buy it cheaply, not minding the rising cost of production which farmers are battling with. They have a way of manipulating farmers by tampering with the weighing instruments (scale) for them to make more gains at the expense of the producers. We also contend with the challenge of power supply and this is becoming more epileptic in the Mowe/Ofada axis of Ogun State where we have our farmers. In the last two weeks, no one has enjoyed power supply from the IBEDC and this has increased energy costs. “The Central Bank interventions in the agriculture sector are what we (fish farmers) never benefited from. We only hear that they give support to rice and cassava farmers and other players in the economy but we have been left out. We really need the government to intervene to avoid a total collapse of the fish sector. “I want to categorically tell you that many fish farmers are out of business as their operations have folded up. Within one kilometer from where my farm is located, I can count not less than four farms that have folded up. I’m not also left out because my production capacity has dropped drastically because I can no longer afford to rear as much fish as I used to rear due to the high cost of feed. I have eight pounds but now I can hardly maintain two of them.” A feed miller at Premier Feeds, a subsidiary of Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc, producers of Top Feeds, who craves anonymity, told The Point that the major challenge confronting feed millers like his company was sourcing enough foreign exchange to import the essential ingredients to manufacture animal feeds.
He noted, “In a situation where you need to approach the Central Bank for about $100,000 and the best you could get is $50,000, you are forced to source for the balance from the black market at an exorbitant rate. This cost, of course, is expected to trickle down to the farmers and ultimately the consumers. “It is a fact that 70 per cent of the cost of production in the fish and poultry business is attached to feed but with the current situation of things in the country now, cost of feeding animals has gone above 70 per cent. “The truth be told, the industry is shrinking as the number of players on the exit is much higher than those coming into the industry. For those who are still striving to stay on, they are doing far below their capacity. For instance, a farmer that has the capacity for 10,000 fish or poultry, which conveniently was producing at 80 per cent capacity, could hardly produce up to 4,000 or 40 per cent of its full capacity. “We will expect the government to open the borders for key raw materials to come into the country so as to crash the high import cost,” he said. The source decried the policy of the government to ban imports because it wants local farmers to make more money from local production. He noted that local farmers were unable to meet the demand for maize and soya bean, which are two major ingredients in animal feed production. “Give them three years to keep producing without a stop; they won’t be able to close the supply gap in the market. So we will expect the government to open the import window for both large and small feed millers to bring in raw materials, which will impact positively on cost,” he said. Meanwhile, the industry still holds great prospects for investors (farmers), according to the source, who said the demand for food would continue to increase due to the increase in human population. “You know that food ranks among the top three needs of humans, so there is hope for the food industry as men must eat to live. But the level of production and consumption is what I will not be able to discuss because that will be determined by so many factors including what we are talking about now,” he said. A senior lawyer, Fred Aigbadumah, while reacting to the likelihood of an impending food crisis and looming hunger, said galloping and skyrocketing inflation were to blame. According to him, no sector of the economy is spared by this inflationary trend, as there is hardly any commodity, from foodstuff to electronics and to other things, one brings in today and returns the following week, and the price of such commodity remains the same. He advised farmers to look for ways to mitigate their losses. “There’s no sector that is spared by the galloping and skyrocketing inflation. The inflation rate is on the rise on a daily basis. They (farmers) need to look for ways to mitigate their losses and see how they can raise their production. They also need to see how they can mitigate cost, because on a daily basis, the inflationary rate is increasing,” he said. Aigbadumah was also of the view that poultry and fish farmers should not blame middlemen for their inability to determine the price of their farm produce.
According to him, doing this would mean that farmers were looking for “face-saving devices”. “All those (talk about middlemen influencing prices) are face-saving devices. You see, farmers can no longer go to the farm in virtually all parts of the country because of security challenges, and we know those that are causing these security challenges. Unfortunately, the ability, the capacity, or the determination to confront these trouble makers are not there,” he noted. Continuing, he said, “There’s no state, especially in the North East and North West that is spared. Even in some of the North Central states, like Niger, Nasarawa and Benue States, farmers cannot go to their farms as usual, and even some of them that managed to do the farming, to grow their crops, when it’s time to harvest, different people will come for the harvests, and apart from coming for the harvest, they will be asking farmers for money, too, as ransom. That is one area that has to be tackled by a determined government.” Aigbadumah further explained that the abundance of farm produce would have effectively “phased out” the activities of these middlemen who don’t allow poultry and fish farmers to sell at a profit. “Leave the issue of middlemen. When there’s a surplus in the market, the activities, the effects, and the influence of middlemen become phased out automatically, I can assure you that. When the economic principle of supply and demand or what you call price mechanism comes in, the activities of middlemen will fizzle out. It’s because there’s not enough (farm produce) for them (farmers) to distribute, that’s why they are relating with them (middlemen), and you also know the cost of bringing farm produce to the common man, or to the marketplace.” Asked about the significance of the Abuja rice pyramid in addressing any eventual food shortage in the country, he said for some reasons, he didn’t want to go into that. “I will not go into that because I don’t believe in that pyramid. It’s fictitious, surreptitious, deceptive and mysterious. When they talk about the groundnut pyramid, we all know that there really was groundnut. So, it’s one thing to see, and I keep saying it, the more you look now, the less you see,” he concluded. 