 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The three aspirants contesting the All Progressives Congress governorship ticket in Osun State, on Friday, met with the committee chaired by the Kwara Governor AbdulRahman Abdulrazak. Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, Moshood Adeoti and Lasun Yusuf met with the committee at the party’s secretariat in Osogbo during a stakeholders’ meeting convoked by the seven-man committee. The committee members had been at the secretariat before Oyetola arrived about three minutes after. Adeoti, the Ex-Secretary to the State Government, who is the preferred aspirant of Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, arrived the meeting around 6:15pm. Also, ex-Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Lasun Yusuf came in around 6:19pm. The presence of the three aspirants caused an uneasy calmness at the secretariat that was heavily secured. The committee announced that direct mode of primary would be adopted for the conduct of the primary election. Secretary of the Primary Election Committee, Senator Julius Ucha read the election guidelines to the hearing of all present and assured that the poll would be free, fair and credible. Speaking, the chairman of the committee who is the governor of Kwara State, AbdulRazak AbdulRahmon also promised that the committee would give a level plain ground to all aspirants. Adeoti demanded for the party membership register saying that the governorship nomination form fee included it and that all aspirants should have copies. But AbdulRahmon replied him saying that the committee could only show him the members’ register and that no aspirant would have a copy. In his remarks, Governor Oyetola described Adeoti and Lasun as his brothers and promised that the primary would be free and fair. “I welcome my fellow aspirants; my brothers. This is a purely family affair. We are going to have a free and fair election tomorrow. Necessary machinery has been put in place in terms of security. This state is known for peace. It is the most peaceful state in Nigeria. “It is an exercise that is not new to us. I believe we are going to have a free and fair election. It is not a do-or-die affair. I want to urge supporters of aspirants to allow peace,” Oyetola said. The meeting ended peacefully as aspirants and their supporters dispersed. Other members of the election committee are Senator Ibrahim Yahaya Oloriegbe, Abdulkarim Abdulraman, Wale Raji, Mrs Yetunde Imolehin and Ofonmbuk Okon Bassy. 