 The British High Commission in Nigeria has said that its visa and immigration processes for applicants intending to visit the United Kingdom would, forthwith, take six weeks. British High Commission in Nigeria gave the indication on Tuesday, on its official Twitter handle issued by the UK Visas and Immigration office. The UKVI office said that efforts were being made to reduce the current visa processing time. The span of processing time is due to unpredictable demand across visa centres, a fallout of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the global travel restrictions. A statement from the UKVI read, ‘’Due to the ongoing impact of COVID-19 and global travel restrictions, UKVI is experiencing unpredictable demand across all visa routes. Standard visitor visa applications are taking on an average of six weeks to process. UK Visas and Immigration are working to reduce the current processing time as quick as possible. You should bear this in mind when making travel arrangements.” The UKVI advised applicants against unnecessary visits to the Visa Application Centres unless they were invited, stating that applicants whose passports were ready for collection would be contacted by officials at the centre for pick up. It added that there would be a consideration for extremely compassionate or compelling circumstances such as medical emergencies, although that would come at an extra cost. It read, “You will be contacted by the Visa Application Centre when your passport is ready for collection. Please, do not attend the VAC until you have been invited to do so. “Where there are extremely compassionate or compelling circumstances (for example, a medical emergency), we may consider expediting specific cases. However, the bar for this is high and will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. “If your request is exceptionally urgent you can contact UK Visas and Immigration for help. Please, note that this is a chargeable service for overseas customers. We apologise for any inconvenience this may cause.” 