 The Police in Imo State have confirmed the arrest of Deberechi Chukwu, one of the suspected killers of Christian Kpatuma, a retired Chief Superintendent of Police in the state. The Commissioner of Police in the Command, Rabiu Hussaini, made the disclosure to journalists in Owerri, the state capital, on Friday. Kpatuma, a native of Mgbala, Agwa in Oguta Local Government Area of the state, was reportedly murdered on February 1 with his corpse dumped in front of his compound. The commissioner said that Chukwu was arrested by the command’s tactical team while trying to escape to a border state. “Sequel to a report of a case of murder received by the Agwa Divisional Police Headquarters that on 01/02/2022 at about 21:52 hours, a group of young men suspected to be cultists resident in Mgbala Community Agwa in Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State conspired amongst themselves went to the house of one Christian Kpatuma, a retired Chief Superintendent of Police and a native of Mgbala, abducted and took him to a nearby bush where they killed him and later carried the corpse back and dump it in front of his compound. “On receipt of the information, the Commissioner of Police, Imo Command, Rabiu Hussaini, immediately dispatched the command’s tactical teams to the Agwa community with a mandate to fish out the perpetrators of this dastardly act. “After diligent gathering of both forensic and technical intelligence, one of the suspects, Deberechi Chukwu, the leader of the cult group that killed the retired police officer, Christian Kpatuma, was arrested while escaping to a border state. “In the course of investigation, it was revealed that the suspect, Deberechi Chukwu, is a notorious kidnapper and an escapee from the Imo Correctional Center, Owerri, Imo State. The suspect, after escaping from the Imo Correctional Centre, recruited young men into his cult group and were terrorising the Agwa community. “It is also on record that he was involved in the killings of a lot of security personnel in the state. However, he has made useful statement and have volunteered in assisting the police in the arrest of other members of his gang presently on the run,” the CP stated. 