Sunday Akere served during the first tenure of former Governor Rauf Aregbesola, as Commissioner for Information and Strategy. Akere, who is the current Special Adviser on Political Affairs to Governor Gboyega Oyetola, in this interview with TIMOTHY AGBOR, argues that Oyetola has the support of about 75 percent of the total membership of Osun APC and that nobody can stop his re-emergence at the July 16 governorship election. He speaks on other issues. Excerpts:  How has the ongoing internal crisis in your party, the All Progressives Congress, affected the delivery of the mandate of Governor Gboyega Oyetola? I will not want to say that the government has not felt the impact of the distraction that all the noise has caused. I call it distraction because when a promise is made and you are not there when the promise was made, and you are now expected to fully back up the promise, I don’t think that can be workable. Oyetola came in on the basis that some people want to help him in order for them to get positions in his government, but all of us cannot be in positions. We should know that even if a thousand of us worked to get a government in place, definitely, all the 1,000 can’t get positions at the same time. What I will appeal to those that feel that they have not had their own share should be patience. The sun that is up in the sky is still sufficient enough to dry the cloth. That is why they must allow the government to concentrate and continue to deliver the dividends of democracy which he has been doing. Aregbesola’s public alignment with The Osun Progressives, a group working against the re-election bid of Oyetola reignited the crisis in the party, won’t this affect Oyetola’s chances in the forthcoming poll? It has nothing to do with Oyetola’s re-election bid. A greater percentage of the party members in Osun, let me say 75%, are behind Oyetola. In a democracy, the minority must be allowed to have their say, while the majority will have their way. If the minority feels they want to say this or that, they are free to say it. But I want to assure you that the re-election of Oyetola is not going to be affected by anybody’s position or anybody’s indifference to the success of his administration. The governor is focused and he has ensured that nothing should be done to distract him from what he is doing. We are getting closer and preparing for the primaries. By the grace of God, by the 19th of February, everybody will give his mandate to Governor Oyetola and I know that by the 16th of July, 2022, Oyetola will emerge victorious at the governorship election by a greater percentage of margins. We are not saying that those that are on the other side should not come, but they should see that all of us have roles to play in ensuring that we contribute to the continuous entrenchment of progressive governance here in Osun and that is why we are saying that the hands of the governor as a father are widely opened and stretched to those that are feeling bitter or aggrieved to join him and ensure that good deeds of the government continue. Has Oyetola invited those that are aggrieved personally for a peace meeting? The issue is that the Governor met with some of them before we got to this stage. When it got to this stage, the governor formed reconciliation committees across the nine Federal Constituencies but our people insisted that they are not ready to sit with any reconciliation committee in the state unless the committee comes from Abuja and the Abuja committee came and listened to them and after listening to them, they said no, they are going to court. I think sufficiently the governor and the government have done enough to ensure that they are all brought back on board. But it’s better late than never. I know that some of them still see reason and join hands with the governor to ensure the success of the party. But the aggrieved party members have given Governor Oyetola some conditions for peace. Part of which is that he resigns from the Caretaker Committee, that he cannot be a judge in his own case. Are they the ones that put him in that position? He (Oyetola) was never a judge in his own case. Was he part of the reconciliation panel that came around here? A lot of people just concoct stories and fly them around anyhow. Some of them keep on saying that the governor influenced the committee that came for the congresses. Why will a committee come for congress for the Ward, same for Local Government? In 2014, I was the chairman of the Congress Committee for APC in Abia State. I conducted the ward congress, I conducted the local government congress and the state congress and everything went well. They (aggrieved members) are not in the position to demand his resignation. The President brought the committee and the forum of APC governors passed a vote of confidence in the committee that they should continue. So, what is their own right now to start saying that the governor should resign his position? Are they the ones that put him there?