BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE ORGANISED Labour in Nigeria’s electricity sector has kicked against what it described as alarming developments in the power sector. Members alleged that banks were practically taking over Distribution Companies (DisCos) and other power facilities in the country, based on perceived defaults to repay loans allegedly borrowed by the DisCos. Organised Labour therefore issued a strike notice to the Federal Government, where it rejected the take-over of DisCos by banks. The National Union of Electricity Employees gave a 14-day ultimatum to the Federal Government through the Ministers of Power, Labour and Employment, among others, in a notice dated July 7, 2022. The strike notice was signed by the General Secretary, NUEE, Joe Ajaero, among others. It said it was obvious that the owners of the affected DisCos would not have obtained loans from banks with the DisCos/facilities as collateral pre-privatisation and that there was no way the banks would seize DisCos, GenCos or any other company before take-over under the pretence that they were indebted to them. The Union said, “It does not make both Technical and Socio-Economic sense for the Federal Government to indirectly hand over the operations of Electricity Companies to Banks… “The alarming developments in the Power Sector where Banks are practically taking over Distribution Companies (DisCos) and other Power facilities in the Country based on perceived defaults to repay loans allegedly borrowed by the DisCos. “It is on record that the Union sounded a note of warning to the Federal Government and the nation at large over the lack of Financial capacity of these Companies to buy into the 18 Unbundled Companies in the Power Sector preparatory to its Privatisation. “Unfortunately, the warning went unheeded with the Federal Government giving them these Companies based on loans presumably collected from Commercial Banks. The Federal Government made us understand that the Investors had the Financial and Technological muscles to drive the Sector. “Now that the ‘chicken has come home to roost’ it has been discovered that most of these Private Investors probably lack the capacity to refund the loans obtained from the Banks. It is obvious that owners of these Companies (DisCos) would not have obtained loans from Banks; with the Distribution Companies/Facilities as collateral Pre-Privatization and there is no way the Banks will seize DisCos, GenCos or any other Company before take-over under the pretence that they were indebted to them. “Before now, we had called for the review of the privatization process with its manifest imperfections. It does not make both Technical and Socio-Economic sense for the Federal Government to indirectly hand over the operations of Electricity Companies to Banks. ‘’This has partly contributed to the near collapse of the Power Sector. It is also unbelievable that the Federal Government is contemplating further privatization in the Power Sector. We are on standby. “In view of these developments and since the jobs of our members are being threatened with job loses, none payment of salaries/allowances coupled with the increasing difficulty in running these business concerns daily and the general disquiet characterizing the Sector, we call for the exit of Banks (whose presence have been a distraction) from these Power facilities without further delay. “Premised on the foregoing, the Union issues a 14 Days notice for these and other issues including the obnoxious letter by the Head of Service for which notice has been given and expired; to address these issues or our Services will no longer be guaranteed. This is not a threat.”