 BY AKEEM OLUSEYE Nigeria was colonized by Britain but has failed to emulate the democratic practice by the British who brought and designed the political and administrative systems being practiced here. Though, there was an attempt to model our politics after that of America in 1979, this is only on papers. The same factors that rendered the parliamentary system inoperable were carried over into the presidential system thereby worsening the system. We copied the Americans only in principle and not in practice. When you see Nigerians migrating to European countries, it is because the country has failed them. The system is not working the way it is supposed to. Nigerians in England and other advanced countries are being supported in their respective fields without knowing anyone or with connection. The system yonder is meritorious – everything is based on merit. On June 18, I was fortunate to attend the 10th anniversary of sickle cell awareness programme organised by a Nigerian lady from Delta State based in Ireland, Esther Owuta Onolememen. The sickle cell awareness programme has gotten the attention and has been adopted by the Irish government for screening new-borns in the country and the lady has gotten huge support from the Irish government without knowing someone who knows someone. It came from the normal working of the system. In Britain today, Nigerians are doing well in all spheres of life. Move around England and see how Nigerians are being absorbed into the country’s system. In Nigeria, nepotism, religious bigotry, corruption, ethnicity and many other vices are well entrenched and have divided us to the extent that they have become prerequisites for choosing who leads us in government. They, the listed vices, determine who gets what, how and where. Today, many have meritoriously served and contributed to the growth of their respective political platforms for years, but their efforts are not rewarded as a result of sentiments and nepotism. Those who are in political space want to die in their respective offices to the detriment of others. I hope we can restructure our political parties to give room for those with the capacity and dexterity to bring the desired changes to our country irrespective of their religious and ethnic background. That is a way we can move forward as a nation. We need to take lessons from developed countries. Nigeria is blessed with both material and human resources, but lack of good management is what is inhibiting our development. And good managers can never get to the helm of affairs in a system that doesn’t reward merit. We hope to see a country where an ordinary citizen will excel without having connections or knowing a politician. Oluseye writes from Abeokuta North LGA, Ogun State. CAVEAT: Views and opinions expressed here are those of the writers and are not in any way those of The Point Newspaper – Editor 