BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A non-denominational Christian group, the Gospel Pushers, Nigeria has called on indigenes of Osun State to vote for the governorship candidate of Accord, Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi and his deputy, Alhaji Kunle Jimoh during the July 16, 2022 elections. The group said going by its observation of all the candidates running in the election, it is convinced that both will form a balanced government, while noting that Ogunbiyi as a devoted Christian and Jimoh, an Imam and a dutiful Moslem will work for the peace, progress and prosperity of the state. In a statement by its Chairman and a one-time Osun State Secretary of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Rev. Theophilus Ayodeji and the Secretary, Pastor Olatunde Babalola, on Wednesday, the group revealed that it has followed the campaigns of all the contending parties and the issues raised by the candidates found Accord as the best among all. Besides, the group noted that characteristically, Ogunbiyi is not only a Christian but one who also, “as all can see, is blameless, upright, one who fears God and shuns evil” while adding that he has been tested and has good report and that he “is not one person that is just trying to build an image for self; but one whose image is impeccable already.” The statement reads, “We have carefully followed the campaigns and the issues raised by the candidates of all the contesting parties. This forthcoming election is vital as it will determine the future of the state, which has badly been battered, particularly in the last few years. The state created about 31 years ago has up to date been governed by four civilian governors and the sixth is about to be elected on July 16th, this year. “We, the Gospel Pushers, have also keenly examined the characters, personalities and depth of the candidates and noted with interest, their promises and manifestoes. We also want to place on record, the fact that former Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola (2003 – 2010) been the only Christian amongst the past civilian governors of this state. “However, taking into cognizance the desires of the teeming people of the state and the need for good governance which is now badly needed, we have been forced to do a lot of studies on the plans and manifestoes made available to the public by each of the candidates. “While some do not have manifestoes at all, some others have kept on justifying their failures in government. The spiritual lives of the candidates were also taken into consideration as the Bible states it that “When the wicked are in authority the people groan; but when the righteous reigns the people rejoice” Prov. 29:2. We have seen now that it is time to rejoice in the state and we must by our own decision cast out groaning. “In view of the aforementioned, “Gospel Pushers” as a body has decided to throw its weight behind the Accord Candidate, Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi as the only candidate that can be trusted at a time like this in the history of our dear State. And, we similarly urge all and sundry in the state to cast their votes for him in the July 16th election. “This candidate is no doubt a born again child of God. He is also righteous and cannot be corrupted by power, affluence and authority. He is humble and passionate for the wellbeing of the state and her people. His plans and manifesto speaks volume of him. “It is in view of the aforementioned that we, the members of Gospel Pushers publicly declares our support for this man of God and urge all Christians and non-Christians alike to vote overwhelmingly for the Accord Candidate, Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi in the July 16th, 2022. Having vouched for his character, the group noted that, “No one in this state will regret casting his or her vote for him. With God all things are possible. His Deputy, Alhaji Kunle Jimoh is a revered Moslem Cleric. We believe therefore that they will run a balance and God-fearing government, to the glory of God”