 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola has said God asked him to seek re-election having achieved in his outgoing first term. Oyetola, the governorship candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress, while speaking on Saturday when his campaign train hit Ila Federal Constituency. The governor averred that God has manifested his re-election and revealed to him to continue to administer the affairs of the state for a second term. He said, “I have divine guidance to seek re-election and continue my good works. Addressing monarchs in the constituency, Oyetola said, “We are here as usual. We were here before in the months past to seek your prayers and we are here again for your royal blessings. We know that Ila is known for the progressives and we seek your support and votes in the next governorship election in the State. “As you all know, God has used us to transform the State within the limited resources accruable to us and we promise to do even more in our second term. I can assure you that what you have seen is just a tip of the iceberg. We shall do more by the grace of God.” Meanwhile, receiving Oyetola and members of his re-election campaign council,  the Orangun of Ila, Oba Abdul-Wahab Kayode Oyedotun, declared his support for the re-election bid, saying he has performed excellently well within the pace of three and a half years he has been running the affairs of the state. The monarch acknowledged the tremendous support of the progressive government for the people of Ila, saying it is worthy of note that ‘APC government has broken jinx of impossibility and eliminated curse of retrogression on Ila and the indigenes. Oba Oyedotun acknowledged the socio-economic advancement and landmark developments the ancient town had witnessed under the progressive government, promising that they would reciprocate the good gesture by voting massively for Oyetola. In their separate remarks, Asaooni Adimula of Ora Igbomina, Oba Joshua Tinuoye Atolagbe, and Akesin of Ora Igbomina, Oba Samuel Olaoye Idowu, assured the governor of their readiness to support him and implore their subjects to vote for him in the next governorship election in the State. In their separate remarks, the State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Prince Gboyega Famodun, and the Director General, Oyetola Re-election Campaign Council, Ajibola Bashir, urged the people of the Federal Constituency to vote massively for Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. 