BY AKINWALE ABOLUWADE, IBADAN Jungle justice is becoming rampant in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital with hooligans and angry youth venting anger on suspected criminals instead of handing them over to law enforcement agents. The violent reaction that gained prominence during the #EndSARS protest when hundreds of angry youths hit the streets in protest against police brutality when some criminals and officers of law were killed and set on fire continue to linger in the pacesetter state without any solution in sight. Lately, along the Ile-Tuntun/ Elenusonso-NIHORT Road in Ibadan, a mob descended on some criminals trying to escape with their loot on a motorcycle and set them on fire after beating them to a pulp. Entreaties by law abiding members of the public that the suspects should be handed over to the police fell on deaf ears. The duo were said to have snatched some items from an unsuspecting passerby and tried to escape but they were intercepted and hauled off from their vehicle and their lives were terminated abruptly. The mob that vented anger on the alleged robbers threatened to ‘deal decisively with whoever tried to let the men escape from their grip.’ In a similar scenario, on June 22, two suspected armed robbers were set ablaze by angry youths for allegedly snatching a motorcycle, fondly called Okada at Ijokodo, Poly Road in Ibadan North Local Government Area of Oyo State. Eye witnesses said that the robbers were chased and caught by the residents while trying to escape with the motorcycle. An eye witness, who simply gave his name as Adedoja, said that the suspected men of the underworld were beaten to stupor and were consequently set ablaze. Olaopa, another eyewitness, said that “They were set ablaze because residents are aware that the robbers usually kill Okada riders whenever they snatch their motorcycle in our area. Though I condemned the act of jungle justice, we cannot ignore the fact that many Okada riders had been killed by heartless robbers. “Just last month, a man on a motorcycle was killed around the Ijokodo axis. It is now becoming a normal phenomenon in this area. I guess that is the reason why they were set ablaze to serve as a deterrent to others. But the government needs to create more awareness of the effects of jungle justice because those who are innocent could be victims as well.” Iya Ibeji, a plastic container seller at Iyaganku area of Ibadan and her children had a bitter taste of rage of the criminals who snatch items from passersby as her husband and breadwinner of the family was murdered in cold blood after an undisclosed amount of money was snatched from her husband. Those who committed the heinous crime disappeared into the blues while she licked her wound with her family members. Kola Olubanjo, a sociologist who spoke with The Point, attributed crime rate in the society to increasing economic hardship in the country. According to him, although it is very sad and unfortunate, the people resolved to take the law into their hands because they think that they don’t usually get justice when criminals are taken to the police station. “This, however, does not suggest that people should take law into their hands; it is absolutely wrong to do so. When you arrest offenders, what the law says is that they should be handed over to the police. Note that even when the local security operatives like the Amotekun, vigilante personnel or the hunters arrest a crime suspect, they usually hand them over to the police.” He also noted, “Surge in crime in the society is due to various factors. One of these is access to illicit drugs that makes young people get high. You have many of these drugs, including marijuana, cocaine and heroin sold especially in black spots. The sellers are not adequately checked because some of our security men also ingest the hard substances. “Take for instance, if the policemen are involved in doing drugs who is there to effect arrest? “Other reasons for the prevalence of crime are the emergence of 419ners, Yahoo boys and ritual killers. The get-rich-quick syndrome has eaten deep into the fabrics of our young generation. People no longer want to work. They no longer believe in hard work. They see politicians leading ostentatious lifestyles; they see big cars and easy-virtue girls are around to take them to ‘third clouds,’ all this compounds the situation.” While reacting to the incident at Ijokodo, Police Public Relations Officer, Oyo State Command, Adewale Osifeso, said that investigation was ongoing and details would be given after.