 Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, has said that his victory in the July 16 governorship election would be a landslide one, that the opposition will have no choice than to congratulate him. Oyetola said that with the love and support of the electorate for him and the All Progressives Congress, nothing can stop his re-election. Oyetola said this during an engagement programme with United Nigeria Panel beater Association, Osun chapter on Tuesday at Akoda, Ede East LCDA of the state. Represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, the governor said with the available meagre resources, he had put smiles on the faces of the people in the state. He said his achievements in various sectors in the state in more than three years in office will speak for him, and ensure his reelection Oyetola, who commended the people of the state for the huge support giving to his administration since inception, urged them not to allow greedy politicians to destroy the giants’ strides the state had made. The governor said that governance is for serious minded people and not for those who lacked administrative capacity. Oyetola said that the massive defeat suffered by the People’s Democratic Party and other opposition parties in the Ekiti State election, would be repeated in the state in a greater dimension. “With the massive support from the electorate, my victory in July 16 will be so clear that the opposition will be left with no option than to congratulate me. “The overwhelming support from the electorate for me and APC is enough testimony that the opposition parties has lost before the election”, he said. Oyetola said that his administration would never be distracted by political machinations, but rather focus on quality service delivery to the people. Oyetola, however, appealed to all registered voters, who are yet to collect their Permanent Voter Cards to do so and support APC during the election. He also urged them not to sell their votes, adding that doing so will amount to sabotaging their future and that of the unborn generation. In remarks, the President of the Association, Olalekan Lemo, commended the governor on his people-oriented programmes and policies, which is affecting the masses positively. Lemo also commended the achievements of the governor in the area of health, infrastructure, social intervention and empowerment. He said, “We have a lot of boost in the areas of our business through series of interventions coming from government. We have never had it so good like this before. “That is the reason we are our throwing our weight as an associations behind him for re-election, so that the goodies can continue.” 