Residents and commuters plying the Osi-Obbo-Aiyegunle in Ekiti local government area of Kwara State have applauded Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq over the construction of the 11.16km road, saying the road will open up the community to various economic activities and improve security. The same appraisals were received from Ora Town in Ifelodun local government where the administration is constructing the township road, aside from other social amenities such as school projects. Some residents and commuters who spoke with newsmen in Obbo-Aiyegunle town said the intervention of the AbdulRazaq administration on the road has brought relief to the community, and improved security situation in the area. A motorist, S.A. Kolawole, explained that the state of the road in the past made it practically impossible to have smooth ride in and out of the town to Osi. “I don’t even have enough words to describe how the road looked like in the past. It was more or less like there’s no road. We thank God for the life of Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq for considering Obbo-Aiyegunle worthy of constructing a befitting road for the community. It is huge one,” he said. On the impact of the road, the community leader said the road would go a long way in opening up new economic frontiers in the area and improve standard of living security situation in the axis. Another resident, Mrs Cecilia Bello, who narrated their ordeals plying the road for many years, said the road construction would ease transportation challenges facing the people of the area and improve economic activities along the corridor. “We have been praying for the construction of our road for a long time because of our experience plying the road particularly during the rainy season. Most times when we were on motorcycles, we would have to get down before we could not navigate some parts of the road. We have suffered a lot as a result of the road. We thank God that the government is now constructing our road. Even as it is, we have the rest of mind plying the road unlike in the past,” she said. “I want to appreciate the Kwara State Government for remembering us at Obbo-Aiyegunle with the construction of this road. Even on security issue, we are very happy that this road is being constructed by the government. May God continue to guide the administration to record more successes. “This road leads to Eda and Ayede in Ekiti State and it will be an alternative route for motorists travelling to Abuja. Once this road is completed, it will ease transportation challenges in this axis.” For his part, a motorcyclist, Osuolale Bamidele, said the community is grateful to Governor AbdulRazaq for the gesture, describing such project as the first of its kind in the community. “The entire community is grateful to Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq for the construction of Osi-Obbo-Aiyegunle. We have never had it so good like this. No governor has ever done such project in our community since the return of democracy in this country. So, we are commending the Governor for what he has done for us so far but we’ll appreciate the project is completed as promised,” Osuolale said. “We do believe that the completion of this project will boost economic activities in our community, ease transportation challenges and improve socio-economic wellbeing of our people.” Project Manager Osi-Obbo-Aiyegunle Road Project, Olatunde Bashir disclosed that the 11.16km project is at 60% completion and would be delivered by October this year. “We are rounding up work on the asphalt level of Obbo-Aiyegunle township road in the next two weeks. We are almost done with the drainages. We are done with the concrete work and we are almost done with the surface level because we are on the base level. Our target and programme of work is to lay asphalt on Obbo-Aiyegunle township road before the end of this month,” he said. The Project Manager explained that the project is properly funded by the state government and the company is working on Sundays and public holidays for timely delivery of the road project because of its importance to the people and government of Kwara State. “This is not an hostile community. Since we started this project, we have never had any issue with the community. They are peaceful. They have been very supportive. They even assist us atimes. So, we are having peaceful coexistence here,” Bashir added. In Ora where the administration is constructing a township road, the community folks commended the Governor for spreading development to all parts of Kwara. “We sincerely thank His Excellency for his unprecedented impacts in our community and indeed across the state. We are truly grateful, even as we seek for interventions on other issues. Our people are very grateful to this administration,” said Oba Samuel Adebayo Akolade.