 Beatrice, the wife of the former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, is being held at HMP Bronzefield prison in the United Kingdom, The Point gathered on Monday. HMP Bronzefield is an adult and young offender female prison located on the outskirts of Ashford in Surrey, England. Bronzefield is the only purpose-built private prison solely for women in the UK and is the largest female prison in Europe. The prison is operated by Sodexo Justice Services. According to Sodexo Justice Services, the facility accommodates 572 women and comprises four house blocks housing approximately 130 women each. “Each wing has a server unit for women to collect their food which they can choose to eat together on the wing or take back to their cells. We provide telephones in each room which is integral in helping women to maintain their family ties,” the services said on its website. “The women are unlocked at 08:00hrs for breakfast and to receive any medication they may require. At 09:00hrs the women will go to their lessons or work. They will break for lunch at 12:00hrs for two hours. In the afternoon they will return to their work location. At 16:30hrs the women will return to their house blocks for association and dinner before lock-up at 18:45hrs,” it added. The Uxbridge Magistrate Court last week denied Beatrice access to Ekweremadu who is being detained in another prison. The Enugu West senator was arrested alongside his wife two weeks ago by the London Metropolitan Police for allegedly conspiring to take a child to the UK for organ harvesting. They were tried at the Uxbridge Magistrates’ Court in London and denied bail as the prosecutors reportedly informed the court that Ekweremadu procured a passport for the boy and claimed he was 21 years old only to discover that he was 15 years old. The case has been adjourned to July 7 at Westminster Magistrate Court to enable the UK Attorney General, Suella Braverman, to determine whether the case will be tried in the country or in Nigeria. 