BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A foremost Nigerian businessman, Khamis Olatuntunde Badmus has urged voters in Osun State to decline any form of inducements by politicians during the Saturday governorship election in the state. Badmus gave this charge on Saturday while addressing journalists at his country-home in Osogbo during Eid-el-Kabir celebration. The industrialist expressed hope that vote-buying would not be allowed to thrive at the forthcoming gubernatorial poll because of some machinery and policies the Independent National Electoral Commission had put in place. He also noted that since there was expectation that the election would be heavily secured, thugs and other hoodlums would not distrupt the electoral process. Badmus said Osun people are wise and educated to vote the right candidate. “We have noticed the massive mobilization of security men to Osun. The election is going to be led by a DIG, AIGs, CPs. In Osun, we are not used to thuggery. If not for the last administration that raised the hope of some boys that they call different names, and that has died down. “We thank God that snatching of ballot boxes has reduced. The thugs will not be useful in the coming election. “See and buy may not also work again because when the politicians design a way, you will see that the INEC will also find a way to frustrate it. There is no room for you to go to the polling booth with a camera again. So, whoever gives you money, it is not see and buy again. There is no way you can show your ballot paper to anyone. I will advise them to refuse inducement and vote in line with their conscience, that’s the only way we can frustrate see and buy, they will attempt vote buying because they believe they are investing. “Politicians who want to buy vote may administer oath to ensure that they are voted for, after payment but the oath doesn’t work. “Osun has already decided where the 2022 vote will go to when they reacted to the outburst of an opinion leader in the state. Leaders must be careful of what to utter during election. “We have a lot of educated people in Osun and that is why they have been advocating to vote rightly on July 16. I am very sure and confident that right candidate will emerge because of all the machinery that use to check the possible outcome have predicted that right candidate will emerge,” he said.