You lied, produce evidence of your application, Oyetola reacts BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Osun State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has accused Governor Gboyega Oyetola of frustrating its planned mega rally for its July 16 governorship candidate, Ademola Adeleke by tactically refusing to approve venue for the political event. Addressing a press conference in Osogbo on Wednesday, the party Caretaker Committee Chairman, Adekunle Akindele, said the state government refused to approve venues it formally applied for to host its mega rally slated for next week. “We wish to inform Nigerians about the intolerant posture of Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola led Apc Government in Osun State. “As you may be aware, our candidate in the July 16 governorship election in Osun State, has crisscrossed the length and breath of Osun State, with the breakdown of his manifestos for the good people of the state. “As expected, our party in the state alongside the national campaign council is prepared to cap the statewide campaigns with a mega rally slated for next week. But to our dismay, the state government under the watch of Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola has declined to approve the use of venues formally sought for the rally. “All efforts to make Alhaji Oyetola led government come to the realistic terms of the fact that government properties in Osun State belong to the people of the state, has fallen on deaf hears. “It is absurd that a state governor hired as a tenured custodian of state infrastructures would have such effrontery as to arrogate and administer the properties as personal estates. This to us, is strange in a fledging democracy as ours. “We want to say we have options as stakeholders in the affairs of Osun State to hold the rally but the state government also have option to be reasonable in managing the state at a time like this, to avoid unnecessary chaos,” Akindele said. Reacting, the governor said the major opposition party was peddling falsehood. Speaking, Oyetola’s Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, said the PDP was peddling lies and challenged the party to produce copies of its applications for the venues. “Everyone already knows that PDP is rich in peddling lies and falsehood. If they are actually telling the public the truth, they should produce evidence of the said applications for the venues,” Omipidan said.