BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Campaign for Equal Voting Access for Persons with Disabilities (EVAPWD), a program of the Centre for Citizens with Disabilities (CCD), has expressed excitement over the priority accorded Persons Living With Disabilities (PWDs) and marginalised populations at polling units during the Osun State Governorship election. After observing the poll across the three Senatorial districts, the group commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for opening polling units as early as 8am, and expressed happiness at voter turnout at the polling units observed. In a statement issued by David O. Anyaele, Chairman, Campaign for Equal Voting Access for Persons with Disabilities, the group hailed the electoral umpire for deploying Braille guides, shade and magnifying glasses in the significant number of PUs monitored. Anyaele said, “EVAPWD is impressed to observe that marginalized populations – the aged, nursing mothers and pregnant women and persons with disabilities were offered priority voting in most of the polling units observed. In particular, Polling Unit 4, ward 5 in Irepodun LGA, Polling Unit 2, ward 5 in Ede South LGA, Polling unit 8, ward 10, columnist, Odo-Otin LGA and the majority of other observed Polling Units were see providing priority voting for PWDs. We commend Polling Officials for their efforts in this regard. “EVAPWDs observed that significant PUs were accessible to persons with physical disabilities. In particular. PU 9 Ward 3, Boripe LGA; PU 10 Ward 4, Ijebu Ijesha; PU 7 Ward 3, Ijebu Ijesha LGA; PU 4 Ward 4, Ijebu Ijesha LGA, PU 04, Ward 4, Ede North LGA, PU 3 ward 5 in IIeogbo LGA. and PU 2, ward 9 in Aiyedire LGA were good examples of how to make PUs accessible to physically challenged voters. Observation shows that INEC sited a significant number of PUs along the Roadside and dropped the ballot boxes on the floor, whilst a good number of other PUs were sited in building with access for those on wheelchairs. “That notwithstanding, EVAPWD is dissatisfied that significant number of Polling Units observed were not accessible. Notably, P U 9, Ward 3 in Boripe LGA was not accessible as it was too high and filled with steps and grasses. Also, in PU 4, Ward 10, Ede South LGA, PU 8, Ward 5, Ede South, PU 8, Ward 10 in Odo- Otin, and PU 5, Ward in Osogbo were sited across gutters. Also not accessible is PU 2, Ward 9, and its environs in Aiyedire LGA were sited across gutters or in schools with steps and high pavements. What this means is that voters with physical disability would struggle much more to cast their votes. “EVAPWDs observed the deployment of Braille guides, shade and magnifying glasses in the significant number of the PUs visited. In particular, PU 8, Ward 10 0din-Oti LGA, PU 4, Ward 10, Ede South LGA and others were seen with assistive devices for PWDs. This is commendable as INEC has made observable improvement in this regard. “EVAPWDs is pleased to note that security provisions were adequately provided in each PU visited. EVAPWD observed that form EC40H was readily available, but the knowledge of INEC ad-hoc staff around the use of this document remains weak, even as Voting Guides for the deaf in a significant number of the Pus were not seen “In conclusion, EVPWD commend INEC and other election stakeholders for the significant improvement on accessible polling units as not only did INEC ensured that PWDs and other vulnerable groups enjoyed priority at the PUs, assistive devices such as Braille guides, shade and magnifying glasses and siting of significant number of PUs in accessible environments. “EVAPWD is pleased with the level of security so far provided by the security agencies, not withstanding that INEC Ad-hoc staff are struggling to administer form EC40H to PWD, even as Voting Guidelines were missing at most of the PUs visited.”