BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Some observer groups at the ongoing governorship election in Osun State have decried what they described high level of vote-buying by politicians at the poll. Aside voters’ inducements, they disclosed that secrecy of voters’ cubicles were compromised as party agents and other political foot soldiers encroached into voting cubicles to commit malpractice. These revelations were contained in separate addresses of Hussaini Abdu, the Board Chairman of Yiaga Africa and Ene Obi, the Convener of Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room in Osogbo. To this end, YIAGA Africa, recommended that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should uphold the secrecy of ballots in future elections in the country. Giving an appraisal, Abdu added that the electoral umpire should also audit the newly created Polling Units and ensure even distribution of Polling Units. While observing acts of vote buying in Akinlalu and Iree towns, YIAGA Africa disclosed that information from its observers in the field revealed that voter intimidation by All Progressives Congress (APC) thugs was carried out in Iragbiji. It also stated that in Ogbaagba town, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) thugs threatened to disrupt the electoral process. He said security personnel conducted themselves with civility. Yiaga also suggested that appropriate sanctions should be imposed for electoral act violation. According to Ene Obi, “The BVAS were deployed according to the number of registered voters. In polling units with over 1,000 voters, INEC kept to its promise to deploy two BVAS machines. The machines functioned credibly well. There were issues with the fingerprint verifications, however the facial capture worked very well recording approximately one minute for accreditation and voting in Osogbo and in outside areas, it took longer. “There was open negotiation of buying and selling of votes well-coordinated by the polling agents in many of the polling units. There were no complaints from any of them against each other. Codes and coupons were used to extract commitments from voters as opposed to the blatant money exchanging hands observed in the Ekiti State Governorship election.” The groups, however, commended the people of Osun for coming out early to cast their votes especially the elderly who waited in queues patiently. “INEC’s deployment of materials and personnel should also be commended. Vote trading was recorded in most of the areas observed particularly outside Osogbo. As voting continued, we call on all stakeholders to maintain the peaceful atmosphere recorded so far,” Abdu said.