I won’t pay half salaries if elected for second term, Oyetola vows BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Osogbo, the capital city of Osun State was agog on Tuesday as no fewer than ten governors under the platform of the All Progressives Congress, the presidential flag-bearer of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, National Assembly members of the party among other party leaders and bigwigs stormed Osogbo Township Stadium, venue of the APC Mega rally to drum support for the re-election of Governor Gboyega Oyetola at Saturday’s governorship election in the state. Addressing the mammoth crowd at the rally, the governors described the incumbent governor as an excellent performer who has brought purpose to governance. They said those who have a fair mind devoid of prejudices and biases will testify to the developmental strides Oyetola has recorded since becoming governor of the state in 2018. The progressive governors, therefore, reaffirmed their unalloyed support for Governor Oyetola just as they declared their readiness to do all necessary within the law to ensure his re-election. National leaders of the APC expressed confidence that the party would overwhelming defeat the Peoples Democratic Party and other political parties jostling for the number one political job in the state. Specifically, the National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, said APC would not be taking any chances in winning the poll. Adamu said, “We are taking no chances, we are supporting our candidate. Now, like one of the speakers said a while ago, those who have got a fair mind will testify that Governor Gboyega has done so much since assuming office in this state. We are here to appeal to you to come out on Saturday and vote APC. We did it less than a month ago in Ekiti. Osun will be a better performance.” Speaking, the presidential candidate of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, urged the people of Osun to replicate the victory recorded last month in Ekiti by voting for Governor Oyetola and desist from entrusting their future into the hands of “mushroom political parties.” According to Tinubu, “We got Ekiti. Now, we are in Osun to ask you to please, do the same thing. Come out with your PVCs and vote for APC. Osun, the voting is now in your hands, be very vigilant. We will celebrate. You are the one who chose President. ‘Emilokan.’ It’s my turn. This great fortune, it’s your turn, it’s my turn, it’s our turn. Come out en masse and reject PDP and other mushroom political parties.” The Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, lauded Oyetola’s prudence and efficiency in managing the state’s meagre resources, calling on citizens to look beyond political sentiments in their choice of who to elect, and to vote massively for Oyetola. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues, Chairman of the Nigeria Progressives Governors’ Forum, Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, assured that Oyetola has the backing of all APC governors in the coming election, saying he had earned it with his outstanding performance. “Today, we are here for this grand rally and honoured to be here to throw our support behind you. We did it about four years ago, and you were elected based on what you can do. Now, we are here again to show solidarity based on what you have done.” On his part, the Chairman of the National Campaign Council for Osun governorship election and Lagos State Governor, Babajide SanwoOlu, described Oyetola as deserving of another term based on his personal encounters with the people of the state. He said, “We thank the originator of IleriOluwa political slogan, our dear Governor Oyetola, the one because of whom we are here. Indeed, it is a huge honour that we stand here today because this is a worthy assignment and we have a sellable candidate. It is a job that is gratifying and doable because Governor Oyetola has indeed performed excellently well.” While welcoming members of the National Campaign Council to the State, the Director-General of Oyetola’s re-election Campaign Council, Senator Ajibola Basiru, described the grand rally as a celebration of excellence. He said: “Today, you are being welcomed to the celebration of excellence in governance because in the last three and a half years, Governor Oyetola has brought dexterity, commitment and integrity to the affairs of this state across sectors.” In his short remarks, Governor Oyetola, said Osun is on the path of consolidating on the gains of the last three and a half years. He urged the people of Osun, especially workers, to shun political traducers who are peddling falsehood that his administration will renege in its commitment to their welfare if re-elected, saying he remains strongly committed to their welfare. Oyetola also declared his readiness to do beyond what he has done in his first term, saying the welfare of workers and citizens and the overall development of Osun remains his priority. Among those who attended the rally are Senator Oluremi Tinubu, APC Presidential running mate, Senator Kashim Shetima, National Leader of APC and former Governor of Osun State, Chief Bisi Akande, APC National Secretary, Senator Iyiola Omisore, co-Chairman of the APC campaign council and Kano State Governor, Abdulahi Ganduje, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, Nasir El-Rufai, Babagana Borgunu, Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State, Chairman of Progressives Governors Forum, Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, Nassarawa State Governor, among other APC leaders and stalwarts