 A former Governor of Ogun State and Senator representing Ogun Central, Ibikunle Amosun, has warned some of his loyalists who have dumped the All Progressives Congress not to use either his name or his political structure for negotiation in another platform. Amosun said this on Monday during an extended leaders’ meeting held at his Ibara residence in Abeokuta. Amosun, who was said to be on 2022 hajj in Saudi Arabia and was not available at the meeting, was represented by the leader of the group and the factional Chairman of APC in the State, Derin Adebiyi. The former Ogun State helmsman also denied sanctioning the withdrawal of some of his foot-soldiers from the APC. Although he said that he will not stop anyone who wishes to test his popularity in another party owing to the glaring injustice in the APC, Amosun maintained that he is committed to the project of delivery Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the President come 2023. He further explained that he is also committed to his friendship to President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC, maintaining that whatever happens after Buhari’s administration will be a collective decision with his loyalists. Speaking at the meeting, Adebiyi thanked the former governor’s supporters for always being with him through thick and thin, adding that the injustice meted at them started since 2018. He recalled how his State Working Committee was sacked by the Adams Oshiomole led National Working Committee, allegedly supported by the Vice President Yemi Osibanjo, saying an Exparte Order was obtained without serving them. He also recalled how the Order was challenged in court and was on the verge of victory when Oshiomole was removed as the National Chairman of the party and the president ordered withdrawal of all court cases. Adebiyi said since the withdrawal of the suit challenging the dissolution of his executive out of recognition of party supremacy, nothing has come from the national leadership of the party. According to the source at the meeting, some of the aggrieved loyalists had told Amosun that they were going to another party, adding that Amosun said he won’t stop them once they have the assurance of winning in another party. While delivering Amosun’s message to the meeting, Adebiyi said, “We read in the news last week that some of us have gone to another party and that they were promised Deputy Governor, Ogun West Senatorial ticket and about five houses of Assembly. When we heard that, I called SIA (Amosun). “Amosun reminded me that he had said publicly in Abuja that he was withdrawing for Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu to be the president and that he will support him. “He (Amosun) said no matter what anybody may say, Buhari is his friend and no matter what is between them, he will be loyal to him till May 29, 2023 in APC. He denied knowledge of what the loyalist did. “He has sent us to you that he stands with Tinubu, he is loyal to APC, he stands with President Muhammadu Buhari and by the grace of God, on May 29, 2023, he will follow him to Daura and say AlhamduliLlah. “If there is any other step to be taken, it will be a collective decision. “Now, he said we should tell all of you that whoever loves him and believes in him with all his explanations, such person should stay with him and that he is not angry with anybody. “Whoever wants to contest in another platform is free to contest, but should not use the name of this group or that of SIA to negotiate, this is what Amosun is saying. This is what he has asked us to tell you.” Last week, some of the key loyalists of the former Presidential aspirant reportedly withdrew their membership of the APC owing to an alleged injustice meted to them by the national leadership of the Party. They also blamed the decision to leave the party on the refusal of Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State to honour an alleged power sharing agreement proposed by the national leadership of the party in seven states, including Ogun State. Top amongst the loyalists of the former governor who dumped the APC last week was the former House of Representatives member and the former governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement in the 2019 governorship election in the state, Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade. A close ally of Akinlade who was contacted to speak on the absence of the former governorship candidate at the meeting hinted that the invitation was not extended to them. 