 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The National Youth Service Corps has reacted to the arrest of one of its corps members who was arrested for allegedly trading Permanent Voter’s Cards with politicians in the state ahead of the July 16 governorship election. In a statement signed Eddy Megwa who is the Director of Press and Public Relations, the Scheme said, “it is rather unfortunate that corps member Orji Desmond Nkenna who is one of the accused persons could debase himself into such an atrocious act.” Recall that Orji Desmond Nkenna, a corps member attached to the Independent National Electoral Commission as ad-hoc staff was arrested, alongside two others, for allegedly selling PVCs at Atakumosa West Local Government Area, Osu, Osun State. A statement issued by the spokesperson for the command, Yemisi Opalola,  in Osogbo, on Saturday said it recovered 38 PVCs  from the suspects. NYSC said, “We have also noted that the case is under investigation. If found guilty, the law should be invoked accordingly.” The corps distanced itself from such unpatriotic act of the culprits and  condemned the act in its totality. “The involvement of corps members in previous elections in the country was borne out of their track record of impeccable performances in several previous national assignments and we are proud of them all that stick to the rules. “All corps members right from the Orientation Camps are always sensitized by NYSC and INEC officials on their roles during elections, including the statutory sanctions if they violate the electoral laws. “Consequently, any corps member that engages himself in any form of electoral offence must squarely face the wrath of the law as stipulated in the electoral act. “NYSC would continue to play its role of promoting the unity and integration of the country, as it has been doing in its almost fifty years of existence. “With the 2023 general elections around the corner, the NYSC would not relent in consolidating the long existing partnership with INEC towards ensuring a free, fair and credible election to the delight of all Nigerians and the world at large,” the corps said. 