Aides suffer machete wounds Traders, shops attacked BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Some hoodlums suspected to be political thugs have allegedly stormed the residence of the Osun State Commissioner for Lands, Nathaniel Agunbiade and attempted to assassinate him during the gubernatorial election on Saturday. Confirming the attack and attempt on his life by the hoodlums, Agunbiade explained that he escaped the attack when he ran to a police team before he was whisked away. But he said the hoodlums vandalised vehicles parked within his Erinmo residence in Irewole Local Government Area of the state and also macheted three of his aides. He said his house was vandalised and that his family was traumatised while the attack lasted. According to him, “What happened was that while voting was going on, the hoodlums made an attempt on my life, I ran and fortunately, I was rescued by the police who whisked me into their vehicle. So, because they couldn’t get at me, they then descended on my aides whom they macheted mercilessly. “One of them is still at the Intensive Care Unit of the LAUTECH Teaching Hospital (now Osun State University Teaching Hospital). As I am speaking to you, I am at LAUTECH Teaching Hospital, Osogbo. As if that was not enough, they now broke into my compound, vandalised the building and also vandalised some of the vehicles they met in my compound. So, that was what happened, the attack was led by PDP thugs against me by one Gbenga Noah and one other person known as Tunmise, who was holding a gun and axe and they were prompted by one point person of PDP in the place, Mrs. Deborah Oladimeji. “So that happened on Saturday, two of those people who were attacked had been discharged yesterday (Sunday). One is still there and I am staying with him now. The attack happened on Saturday while the voting was going on. My wife and family were in the house when they attacked and they had to lock themselves inside the room. One of my men who was preventing them from gaining entry into the room where my wife, my sister in-law were hiding, was mercilessly macheted and wounded by clubs on the head. Two persons before getting to the house and one person when they got to the house were also injured.” Also, some suspected political thugs have allegedly vandalised the property of some Igbo traders at Old Garage, in Osogbo, after the outcome of the Osun State Governorship election. In a viral video obtained by our correspondent, counters and open shops of the traders who are mostly from the Eastern part of the country were attacked due to their alleged choice of the vote in Saturday’s poll. A man behind the camera alleged that the thugs vandalised their counters and shops for supporting Senator Ademola Adeleke, the People’s Democratic Party candidate. Confirming the attack, the President of Ohaneze Ndigbo in Osun State, John Dike said no one was injured adding that everything has been brought under control. According to him, the people who destroyed the property belonging to the Igbo people were dissatisfied with the outcome of the governorship election. Dike said, “You know, in an election like this, you can’t rule out the possibility of dissatisfied persons. It’s not anything serious. Some of our people had their counters destroyed but we have brought that under control as I speak to you now. “We are not taking any serious actions against it because we know that there are skirmishes of things like this when elections come up and go. “The Yorubas that we live in their land are peace-loving and we have been living friendly. So, it’s something we can handle. There is no one injured as I speak to you,” he said.