Oyingbo/Agbado passengers train to begin operations 1st quarter 2023 A 31-km redline passengers rail service from Oyingbo, Lagos State to Agbado in Ogun State is set  to commence in the first quarter of 2023. Disclosing this during the signing of Memorandum of Understanding on the rail project between Ogun and Lagos States, the Secretary to the Ogun State Government, Tokunbo Talabi, noted that the project  is another significant achievement in the series of developments engendered by the Lagos/Ogun Joint Commission. He added that the development was another achievement from the robust understanding and synergy between the governors of Lagos and Ogun States in taking advantage of their proximity to better their economies and the lives of their citizens. Talabi noted that significant achievements had been made by the two states through the Lagos/Ogun Joint Commission in the  areas of waterways and security, saying “this is yet another testament of more initiatives to be undertaken by the joint commission.” The SSG said that “the two states have the understanding that what benefits one, benefits the other and what brings convenience to one will mean the same for the other due to their close proximity. Integration of the transport system between the two states is highly probable for the benefits of both states’. While pointing out that the transport system of any nation or state is critical to its civilization, Talabi affirmed that Ogun State is committed to taking advantage of the sector to improve the livelihood of commuters and citizens alike in Ogun and Lagos. Speaking with newsmen after the signing of the MoU, the Commissioner for Transportation, Lagos State, Frederick Oladeinde, explained that the redline rail project is 31km, the first phase of 25km stretch from Oyingbo to Agbado already being constructed will be completed by the end of 2022 while passenger operations will commence first quarter of 2023. Oladeinde added that a train station and depot is being built in Ogun State, noting that the project will create a lot of employment opportunities and huge investment within the corridor for the states. Also, the Ogun State Commissioner for Transportation, Gbenga Dairo hinted that the Ogun government intends to latch on to the initiative to extend train services beyond Agbado to other parts of the state such as Ijoko, Kajola among others. Dairo acknowledged the Lagos State Government’s initiative in investing massively in rail infrastructure, saying “the two states are already taking advantage of the significant investment of the Federal Government through the Nigeria Railway Corporation along the Lagos/Ibadan standard guage railway infrastructure to ensure transportation is effective and efficient to serve the economic needs of Lagos and Ogun as the commercial nerve and industrial hub of the nation respectively”. Other dignitaries at the event included, the Ogun State Commissioner for Physical Planning and  Urban Development, Tunji Odunlami, Ogun Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Waheed Odusile; Managing Director, Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority Mrs. Abimbola Akinajo, Director of Lagos Rail Transportation, Olasunkanmi Okusaya and the Lagos Consultant, Corporate Communication.