BY BAMIDELE FAMOOFO As the Consumer Performance Index report for June is scheduled to be released today by the National Bureau of Statistics experts have said it will rise to 18.4 percent in June. Bismarck Rewane, Chief Analysts at Financial Derivatives Company Ltd, disclosed: “Based on our econometric models and our market survey of the Lagos metropolis we are projecting acceleration in Nigeria’s official headline inflation rate for the 5th consecutive month.” “We are forecasting a 0.69 percent increase in the headline inflation rate to 18.4% in June from 17.71 percent in May,” he added. The surge in inflation will largely be attributed to the negative effects of biting foreign exchange scarcity and the substantial depreciation in the value of the naira. Additionally, the massive spike in diesel prices is also expected to exarcebate inflationary concerns. Meanwhile, the naira has tumbled by about 1.56 percent at the official market to N426.13/$ in the last month, and depreciated by 2.1 percent at the parallel market to N620/$ within the same time period. Severe foreign exchange scarcity occurs as the CBN is struggling to provide dollars for the market. The abysmal state of the foreign reserves is limiting the ability of the CBN to supply dollars to manufacturers and importers, and ultimately hindering the apex bank’s ability to defend the naira. The foreign reserves have declined significantly due to the country’s inability to produce oil at capacity. Additionally, the delay in tapping into foreign capital markets due to unfavorable market conditions has further hindered Nigeria’s access to foreign exchange. As the prices of both food and fuel commodities continue to remain elevated, we expect all inflation sub-indices with the exception of the month-on-month to rise in step with headline inflation. “We project month-on-month inflation to remain flat at 1.79 percent, food inflation to rise by 1.7 percent to 21.2 percent, and core inflation to increase by 0.7 percent to 15.6 percent,” FDC in a report.