President Muhammadu Buhari Saturday in Daura, Katsina State, advised Nigerian youths to look beyond culture, ethnicity and religion in relating with one another, urging more travels, mingling, tolerance and negotiations to appreciate the rich diversity of the country. President Buhari, who received members of the National Youth Service Corps serving in Daura at his country home, said regular interface and broader vision of Nigeria as a whole will improve relationships, especially among the youths. “Thank you so much for coming to see me. I have been away from home since Sallah celebration a year ago. And my attention has been on Nigeria, which is bigger than my town. “Every time I meet former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, I always thank him for the NYSC, which helps people to move all over Nigeria. “Before the NYSC there were people who had never moved out of their locality,” he said. The President said the scheme broadened the horizon for many over the years, and reduced the tensions and misunderstandings that exist between strangers. “When I joined the army, I was posted to Abeokuta and then Lagos. And I have travelled all over Nigeria,” he added. The President told the youth Corps to keep expanding their views on life and opportunities, and avoid the limitations of culture, ethnicity and religion by exploring technology to network, even beyond borders, ensure personal development and a more competitive means of livelihood. “We are reaching a time where you don’t have to get education and start looking for government jobs. What happens when government job is not there? You get educated and equip yourself for bigger opportunities, mostly provided by technology,” President Buhari said. The President said the Youths and all Nigerians must learn to live together with one another. In his remarks, the Corps Liaison Officer, Douglas Damina, thanked the President for encouraging sustenance of the NYSC, and promoting youth inclusiveness and empowerment. “Mr President we pray that the Almighty God will accept your prayers and remember your sacrifices for the nation, “ he said. Damina told the President that the Corps members had achieved a lot in community development, renovating three motor boreholes, training 350 youths in various skills, and encouraging proper hygiene, especially among women. The President donated two bulls, ten rams and the sum of N1,000,000 (One million naira)  to the corps members  for the celebration.