… Again warns youths against criminality … Presents additional 28 vehicles to Police Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, on Tuesday had strong words for abductors of a former Commissioner for Special Duties (Federal Projects) in the state, Mike Ogiasa. Governor Diri warned that the perpetrators would face the wrath of the law while assuring that the state government was working to ensure Ogiasa regains freedom. Speaking during the 17th state security council meeting in Government House, Yenagoa, Governor Diri, who condemned the kidnap of the former commissioner,
stressed that his administration had zero tolerance for crime and criminality and all those involved in the kidnap will not go scot-free. His Chief Press Secretary, Daniel Alabrah, in a statement, quoted the governor as saying that people of the state and the Ijaw nation at large were known for honesty, truth and hard work and wondered why some youths allowed themselves to be used as agents of criminality. He cautioned youths against involvement in crime, stating that it is an ill-wind that blows no one any good. He urged them to seek legitimate means of making money rather than resorting to crime, stressing that the government had the capacity to deal with perpetrators. Governor Diri called on the people to support the government’s efforts to secure the state by availing relevant security agencies of necessary information as government alone cannot successfully tackle insecurity. “Let no youth be used to terrorise our brothers and sisters. Recently, a video clip of a kidnapped former commissioner has been in circulation. Unfortunately, people take pleasure in using it to give a negative connotation and image about our state. “The government is not sleeping on that matter. We are working on it and by God’s grace we believe and hope that the victim will come out alive. “Ijaw people are known for honesty, truth and hard work. No youth should be deceived into commiting crime and see it as a legitimate means of livelihood. “My administration has declared a zero tolerance for crime. So,  I again advise our youths to move away from crime and criminality. The government has the capacity to deal with situations like this. “Our country is facing security challenges. These are not normal times. So, we need the support of the people. Be vigilant, cooperate with government and the security agencies by availing them of necessary information. “Mike Ogiasa must be released immediately. Security agents are working on it and I am sure in the end we will triumph.” At the end of the meeting, Governor Diri handed over additional 28 Hilux vehicles to the state police command to combat crime. The vehicles were received by the Commissioner of Police, Ben Okolo. In December 2021, the governor also presented 50 patrol vehicles and 40 motorbikes to the security agencies in the state.