 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State has sentenced an 18-year-old-boy, Afeez Arole, to 18 months imprisonment for stealing property belonging to a Church. The convict was dragged to court by the police on three counts bordering on conspiracy, intent to commit felony and stealing. Afeez pleaded guilty to the allegations. Police prosecutor, ASP Abiodun Fagboyinbo, while presenting facts of the matter, explained to court that Afeez, alongside three others now at large, sneaked into the Mountain of Fulfillment Church, Osogbo and stole a musical instrument. Fagboyinbo said that the offence was committed on April 26, this year, around 6:30am adding that some of the Church members who were around for prayer during the robbery operation saw Afeez carting away the instrument alongside others. He stated that church members pursued Afeez and his gang but only succeeded in arresting him alone, and he was later whisked away to Dada Estate Police Station, Osogbo. The charge against him read that “You, Arole Afeez, and three others now at large on April 26, 2022, at about 6:30am at Zone 9, Oke-Arugbo, Osogbo in the Osogbo Magisterial District, did conspire to commit felony. “You (Afeez) and three others now at large, on the same date, place and time, did enter into Mountain of Fulfillment Church, Osogbo, with intent to commit a felony. You and others now at large, at the same time and place, did steal a jazz musical instrument valued at N20, 000, property of Mountain of Fulfillment Church.” Fagboyinbo alleged that Afeez committed offences contrary to and punishable under sections 506, 412 and 390(9) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II, Laws of Osun, 2002. He presented the stolen musical instrument in court as evidence. The convict stood trial without any legal representation. Trial Magistrate, Adebola Ajanaku, found the defendant guilty as charged and convicted him to six months for each of the three counts, with an option of N10, 000 fines each. 