 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Four persons, including a teenager, have been arraigned at a Magistrate’s Court in Modakeke, Osun State, for allegedly stealing various items worth N19, 500,000. Those docked by the police on separate charges are Orotolu Olayinka, aged 26; Olaitan Adegboyega, 26; Adedeji Adetunji, 32; and an 18-year-old-boy, Adewuyi Lukman. Olayinka, Adegboyega and Lukman were accused of stealing building materials valued at N18 million. The prosecutor, Inspector Ona Glory, told the court that the defendants committed the offence between 2019 and 2021 at Oketubu area, Modakeke, Ife East Local Government Area of Osun State. Glory said that the defendants conspired together to commit a felony with stealing. He added that the defendants stole and unlawfully converted to their own use, assorted bundles of aluminum and building materials that were valued at N18 million, property of one Alhaji Ibrahim Isiaq. The alleged offence contravened sections 383, 390(9) and 516 of the Criminal Code, Cap 32, Volume II, Laws of Osun, 2022. The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the two-count-charge of conspiracy and stealing leveled against them. The defence counsel, Badmus Jubril, applied for bail for the defendants in the most liberal term and pledged that his clients would not jump bail, and would provide responsible sureties. Magistrate A. K. Oyawale granted bail to the defendants in the sum of N2 million with two sureties each in like amount. Oyawale said that the sureties must swear to affidavit of means, must reside within the court jurisdiction and must be grade/level 14 officers with three recent passport photographs each. The case was adjourned till July 21, for hearing. Adetunji, who was arraigned separately, was accused of stealing an excavator caterpillar parts worth N1.5 million. Glory told the court that the defendant committed the offence on June 22, 2022 around 4pm along Ondo Road, Modakeke-Ife. He said that the defendant conspired with others now at large to commit felony to wit stealing, adding that he stole excavator caterpillar parts valued at N1.5 million, property of one Oyebode Femi. According to him, the offence contravened sections 383, 390(9) and 516 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Osun, 2002. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the two-count-charge of conspiracy and stealing leveled against him. The defence counsel, Victor Arojo, pleaded for bail for the defendant. Magistrate A. K. Oyawale granted the defendant bail in the sum of N300, 000 with two sureties in like amount. Oyawale adjourned the matter till July 14 for hearing. 