BY BAMIDELE FAMOOFO Greater access to online learning for women can boost economic opportunities for them, such as jobs and new skills, while potentially adding up to $14 billion in value to the adult post-secondary online education market in emerging markets by 2026, according to a report from IFC. The study, Women and Online Learning in Emerging Markets, developed in partnership with Coursera and the European Commission, reports that since the onset of the pandemic, about one-third of the women learners surveyed in Egypt, India, Mexico and Nigeria said they found a new job, set up a business, or improved their job or business performance after taking online courses. The analysis finds that one job is created for every 30 people trained online in these countries. Although the pandemic disrupted the education sector, particularly in emerging economies, it also drove more students to online learning. The report says that the number of women enrolled in Coursera courses increased during the pandemic, and online learning allowed women and female caregivers to access education they otherwise would not have pursued. Yet in the Middle East, Sub-Saharan Africa, and Asia and the Pacific, women remain the minority of online learners, as they face several challenges in turning to online education. For example, women lag behind men in access to finance and savings, which prevents them from pursuing multicourse, career-building online credentials that are linked to the labor market, the report says. Stephanie von Friedeburg, Senior Vice President Operations, IFC said, “Online learning is shaping the future of education, but not everyone is benefitting equally. This research shows that closing the digital divide will not only benefit women learners and other underserved groups, but can yield dividends for all.” Jutta Urpilainen, European Commissioner for International Partnerships, said, “The Women and Online Learning in Emerging Markets report combines several EU priorities under the Global Gateway strategy: women’s empowerment, education, digitalization, growth and jobs—all essential to sustainable development. We work with partners to ensure women have equal opportunities also through online learning, which boosts their chances to have a decent job and contribute to more prosperous and peaceful societies.”