BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Governor-elect of Osun State, Ademola Adeleke on Thursday, warned Governor Gboyega Oyetola and members of his cabinet against diversion and looting of government assets and public properties. Adeleke claimed that the incumbent governor and his allies were making clandestine moves to convert public properties to private ownership and bankrupt state finances before he (Adeleke) would take over governance in the state. In a statement issued and signed by Olawale Rasheed, spokesperson to the Governor-elect, Oyetola was accused of planning to further plunge the state into debt. He warned that any government official involved in shady practices would be called upon to answer for them when he assumed office on November 27. “The attention of the office of the Osun State Governor-elect, Senator Ademola Adeleke has been drawn to unwholesome criminal activities by some government functionaries and appointees under the watch of Governor Gboyega Oyetola directed towards pilfering of state assets, conversion of public assets into private ownership, illegal awards of licences and incurring of superfluous loans and expenditure. “We have it on good authority that Osun State assets within the state, Kogi, Lagos, Abuja and outside the shores of the country are being tampered with for private acquisition. We have detailed reports of several properties currently being processed for ownership transfer involving serving commissioners and top government officials, hence serious warning to those involved in the illegal deals. “Emerging reports also indicate several shady conducts ongoing within the state finance ministry. Aside N17 billion loan allegedly taken by the governor to prosecute the lost election, we are inundated with credible reports of emergency contract awards, hurried processing of payment vouchers and a grand agenda to incur further debt under the guise of project implementation. There is an elaborate plot to further bankrupt the state to complicate governance under the new administration. “We want to use this medium to warn all those involved in this criminal endeavour to desist from these nefarious activities as we will hold everybody accountable for their conduct. Let it be known to the Governor and his team that we have the complete records and inventory of Osun State assets. We are in possession of records of what was handed over to the Governor by his predecessor as well as the true state of Osun finance and properties. Therefore, we put on notice that any attempt to divert state properties and muddle up Osun finances will be visited with full measure of accountability. “Every government official from top to bottom will be called to account for their deeds and handling of government’s assets. We specifically warn bureaucrats to safeguard their career by refusing to collaborate with any appointed and elected officials engaging in such criminal conduct. “We also wish to alert the public on this subject matter. Let the public be aware that our common patrimony is being tampered with by an administration they just voted out of office. We promise to follow this matter closely and ensure that Osun assets remain secure and protected for the benefits of the public. “It is on this premise that the general public and the good people of Osun State are hereby alerted to the dastardly plan by Governor Oyetola and some of his officials, and for the public to report any such criminal moves which they may sense regarding this public alert,” the statement read. However, the Osun State Government has described as untrue the claim by Adeleke, and his party, the People’s Democratic Party that government officials are diverting or looting government assets and property. The government further accused the PDP of peddling lies and propaganda just to curry underserved public sympathy, insisting that Governor Adegboyega Oyetola does not have a background of pilfering or misappropriating funds. The state Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs. Funke Egbemode, in a statement issued on Thursday said that the records are there for all to see and deduce from in order to show that the current administration was not plunging the state into debt. “We know where Senator Ademola Adeleke, the governor-elect, is coming from, and the world also knows the antecedent of the incumbent governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, the hardworking leader, who has served the people of Osun State meritoriously. He does not have the background of pilfering or misappropriating funds. The records are there for verification. “We have seen the press statement that is in circulation from the camp of Senator Ademola Adeleke, poisoning the public with lies and raising false alarms just to heat up the polity of the state, as is their practice. “We did not take any N17billion loan to prosecute the election, just as no government official has embarked on any looting or diversion of any government assets/property as claimed by the PDP. “Those who are suddenly realising the enormity of governing a state like Osun should own up to their fears rather than making laughable allegations. Oyetola has creatively managed the assets of the state in the last three-and-a-half years and has picked all the bills of the state without taking loans. Why would he start taking loans at this time? “Oyetola’s government remains a responsible one that has discharged its duties meritoriously, to the admiration of fellow governors, including those in the opposition. “It is time for Mr. Adeleke to tell the people how he intends to govern them rather than trying to blame everyone but himself for his fears. Given his admiration for his newly-learnt expression, “fact check”, we extend a call to Mr. Adeleke to show evidence of pilfering or looting to the people of Osun to prove that he is a man whose words have atoms of believability. “Governor Oyetola already has a reputation, Mr. Adeleke is the one trying to build one for himself. It is a more strategic option to build in silence. “We are calling on the people of Osun to ignore the fake lamentations of the incurable propagandists. Governor Oyetola has done well thus far and he will continue to do right by the people,” the statement revealed. Meanwhile, the candidate of Accord Party in the just concluded governorship election, Akin Ogunbiyi has accepted defeat and congratulated Adeleke over his victory. Ogunbiyi, in a statement he made available to The Point on Thursday, expressed gratitude to various individuals, traditional rulers, religious organisations, public and private workers, agencies of government, media outfits, students, market women, artisans, various tribes residents in Osun State, security agencies and others too numerous to mention for the supports accorded to them during the poll. “I also salute the courage of my fellow contenders at the polls for their individual activities displayed towards the service of the good people of the Osun State. I use this medium to congratulate the Osun State Governor-Elect, Distinguished Senator Nurudeen Jackson Ademola Adeleke for his victory at the polls. “To all the electorates, I cannot thank you enough for the maturity displayed both before the election and during the election day which was devoid of lawlessness, destructiveness and ensured peaceful conduct of the election by the INEC. “Please, note that I shall continue to hold all of you in high regards and esteem in my heart. “Osun State is matching on and the gate of hell shall not overcome her. I remain firmly in Accord and we shall continue to contribute our quotas as has been done before now through the Idera De and Arubiewe foundation,” he said.