….To appeal ruling The Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly and State PDP Governorship Candidate, Sheriff Oborevwori, has called on all his supporters to remain calm over the judgement of the Federal High Court, Abuja, in respect of the Wednesday, May 25th primaries he won but has now been disqualified, saying there’s no cause for alarm. On Thursday, a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja  passed a judgement against the candidacy  Sheriff Oborevwori for the 2023 gubernatorial elections in Delta State. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Dennis Otu, the Speaker called on all his supporters and indeed all Deltans to remain calm and steadfast. According to the Statement; “I wish to appeal to all my supporters, political associates and  well wishers to remain calm and law abiding over the judgement of the Federal Court. There is no need to panic, all is well. We will certainly appeal the judgement and so let us maintain the peace as all hope is not lost. All is well and it will end in praise to the Glory of God Almighty. “The courts have always been part of our democratic experience, and our confidence in the judiciary which is the last hope of the common man is unwaivering. So, as we embark on the appeal process, our supporters and indeed Deltans should kindly note and be rest assured that   Rt. Hon.  Sheriff Francis Orhowedor Oborevwori remains the gubernatorial flagbearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State for the 2023 general Elections. “The Sherrification Movement is well and alive and, by God’s grace, we shall overcome”, he added. Oborevwori said he wouldn’t stop praying while appreciating God. “Once again, I want to appreciate God Almighty for giving us victory at all times, and we will certainly not stop praying for more victories because Delta State is in God’s hands and be reassured that He will take us to the Promised Land at the end of the day. We  also wish  to thank our teaming supporters for their steadfastness”, the Speaker said.