BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party, Rabiu Kwankwaso, has accused the Buhari-led government of lacking the knowledge of how to govern a multi-cultural, multi-religious and multi-ethnic country like Nigeria. Kwankwaso also lamented the spate of insecurity, economic hardship and unemployment, with the submission that the country is bleeding. He spoke on Monday in Abuja, during the unveiling of his running mate for the 2023 election, Bishop Isaac Idahosa. According to him, “The sad reality is that our country is bleeding from several and severe wounds inflicted on her either as a result of the incompetence and insincerity of the operators of government or the total lack of understanding of how to govern a multi-cultural, multi-religious and multi-ethnic country like our own. “Their insincerity and intolerance has inflicted an injurious wound to the social fabric of Nigeria; their nepotism and parochial approach to governance has inflicted severe wounds on the country; their ineptitude and lack of empathy has dealt a damaging blow on the body psyche of all Nigerians.” The former governor of Kano State said the choice of Idahosa as the vice presidential candidate of the party was made after careful considerations and screening of more than 20 prospective candidates, all of whom he said, were eminently qualified to run with him. He described the cleric as someone with outstanding record, impeccable integrity, broad understanding of the Nigerian state and its contemporary challenges. Kwankwaso said, “He is a full time believer and promoter of a United Nigeria. I believe we can work together with sincerity to heal the wounds inflicted on the country. “Let us come together and work towards healing our country. We must endeavour to face the challenges of the moment, rise together and work together to build the Nigeria of our dreams”, he added. Speaking, NNPP’s National Chairman, Rufai Alkali, said the team would rescue Nigeria from its present challenges. “We are proud to say we have a dream and formidable team that is well rooted. “The team has the sagacity, and managerial skills to steer the affairs of our great nation. Our party is deeply committed to rebuilding friendship and fraternity. “We however condemned the recent trend of vote buying rearing its ugly head across Nigeria. We want Nigeria to be vigilant so that our collective gains are not destroyed by desperate politicians.”