 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A frontline Islamic group, Tijjaniyya Grassroots Mobilisation and Movement Initiative of Nigeria, TIGMEIN and Osun State chapter of Association of motorcyclists have endorsed Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the July 16 governorship election for a second term. TIGMEIN members declared their readiness to vote massively for the governor disclosing that their members across the state had embarked on grassroots mobilisation and door-to-door campaign to ensure his re-election. The Islamic group said their support for Oyetola was informed by his outstanding performance, verifiable credentials and track records in the last three and a half years, saying he had not disappointed the State and the Muslim community. Speaking on behalf of members of the group, the National Coordinator of TIGMEIN Nigeria, Sheikh Ahmad-Tijani Thanni Awwal, lauded the achievements of Governor Oyetola since assumption of office, noting that he has proven to the world that Muslims are responsible and responsive to be entrusted with power. He disclosed their readiness to mobilise the voting population of the group to vote in their respective domains, assuring block votes from members of the group for the governor. “We are committed to this project and I can assure you of block votes coming from us. We have no choice than to do this, aside the fact that you are the only Muslim Governor in all the 17 southern states, this noble decision is the only way to reciprocate your kind gestures and monumental strides across strata of the economy in the State. “As part of effort to guarantee our votes and ensure your re-election, we have embarked on voter’s sensitisation and we will stop at nothing to ensure that every voting member of Tijjaniyya in Osun votes for you. Our target is to ensure that each member of the group mobilises 20 persons to the polling units to vote and this will have a multiplier effect on your popular vote. “Each of the 20 persons will also bring at least one person. The aim of this endorsement is to get you returned for second term. As you can see, for the first time, we are bringing ourselves together to bring a destiny for our people. The time will come when it will be happening across the states of the federation. The  importance of this is also aimed to show to the world that coming together as a united front, our votes are useful. “We are members of a noble Islam group and we don’t just endorse, we do so by conviction, you have convinced us by your modest achievements in the last three and a half years, it shows that you really mean well for the State and supporting you is the only way to make Osun to soar higher with good things. “The leadership of this group across the country had reached a compromise on this endorsement and we are solidly behind you and we are ready to partner with you on anything, be it education, security, health among others. We want you to continue the good works. We are not after money or any political interest but the goodness of the state because if Osun is good, everyone is good. We need our state to progress and succeed. “Our endorsement is a knockout blow to the opposition parties and Inshallah, Tijjaniyya will give you more than half of the votes that will come for you”, he added. In his remarks, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola expressed gratitude to the members of TIGMEIN all over the world particularly in Osun for their unflinching support and cooperation, saying their endorsement was an appreciation of the little things God had made him to do. He described his endorsement for a second term as an encouragement to do more just as he promised not to disappoint them. “I don’t have much to say than to thank God and my fellow Muslims for your love and support. With what you have done today, it shows to me clearly that Islam is a good religion. I am encouraged today with this move. I am also a son of a cleric. When I was seeking this position, some where asking how i will do it, but today, we are able to successfully paddle the ship of the state to this great level. You have further encouraged me to do more, and I will not disappoint you”, he assured. In thesame vein, commercial motorcyclists in the state declared their total support for the reelection of the governor. In a statement by the leadership of the amalgamation of all groups of commercial motorcyclists, the association identified with Oyetola because of what it describes as the governor’s disposition to road infrastructure which is pivotal to their business. It indicatedthat the declaration which is billed for Monday morning will see about 10,000 members taking part in the rally for the Governor. The road show will take off at Osogbo Steel Rolling Mill to Sabo via Testing ground to Ahmaddiyyah, Boorepo at Ayetoro to Igbona and Old garage. The procession will continue to Oke fia, Estate, Alekuwodo,Iconic bridge to Isale Osun bursting out at Ita Olokan facing Station Road and stopping momentarily at Freedom Park. 