 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party for the July 16 governorship election in Osun State, Ademola Adeleke has pledged to make the repair of major roads in Iwoland a priority to ease the movement of people and goods as well as promote economic activities. Adeleke gave the assurance while addressing a mammoth crowd at a rally in Iwo, saying he would work to ensure the needs of the people of Iwoland are met if elected to govern the state. The candidate and top leaders of the party had paid homage to the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Adewale Akanbi, and royal blessings were showered on the campaign. Adeleke bemoaned the neglect of Iwoland by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led government and promised to address the poor conditions of infrastructures in the ancient town. He said: “Iwoland is too important to have been left out in development consideration by the APC government.” He added: “For me, and by God grace, the government we will form, the development of Iwoland is too on the agenda, because we understand the importance of doing so. “Let me assure the people of Iwoland that we will not pay lip service to their needs, and this will see us fixing major roads and end the undeserved pains that users go through over them over the years. The people of Iwoland has endured enough pains, and by God grace, as your Governor, I will make them go away by putting key roads in proper condition.” Senator Adeleke promised to locate a College of Communication in the Osun State University in Iwo, noting that this will improve options of students and also contribute to the economy of the ancient town. He also promised to correct the damages done to the local councils administration by the Oyetola-led government “because the LGs are the closest to the people and as Governor, we will recognize the important role they hold for our people and make sure they can serve them.” On the welfare of workers and pensioners, the governorship hopeful said he would make their entitlements a first-line charge, noting that it is painful to see people who laboured for the state go home without their deserved entitlements. “If Oyetola refuse to pay owed salaries and pension arrears, be rest assured that we will pay them when we come to office. And know that as Governor, you have a friend who will always ensure that whatever you’re due for, be it salary, gratuity or pension arrears, we will pay it because you deserve it,” he promised. 