BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The presidential candidate of Labour Party, Peter Obi on Wednesday declared that there is dignity in labour and that the era in which the political class would corner the collective patrimony at the detriment of suffering Nigerian masses would soon be over. Reacting to the statement credited to Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress that members of Labour Party will labour till death, urged Nigerians, especially his supporters, to show love to Tinubu, and to remain resolute and committed to voting Labour Party to create a new Nigeria. Obi was in Osogbo on Wednesday for the grand campaign rally of the governorship candidate of LP in the Saturday election in the state, Lasun Yusuff. While urging the people of the state to vote out APC, Obi argued that many things had gone wrong in Osun State since APC was voted into power and stressed that LP’s governorship candidate would restore the lost glory of the state and develop it. He said Osun is highly indebted and that there was nothing to show for the reign of the current administration. Addressing party supporters at WOCDIF centre in Osogbo, Obi said, “To think that those other parties who have kept Nigeria in darkness for 22 years are better, you are the ones that are suffering all those things they are showing you, all those treatments they are giving you, is your mandate they have stolen; is your food they have stolen and we want to recover your future. They have no job, no food, your children are not in school, their children are schooling overseas, this is the time for you to recover Nigeria, this is the time for you to take back Nigeria. “They owe salaries, they owe pensions, those people that are working hard have not been paid. Somebody said they will labour till death, when they talk like that, when they show you hatred, LP will show them love, there is dignity in labour. LP said we want to move Nigeria from consumption to production. You cannot do production without labour, so, there is dignity in labour and those who have laboured will get their reward that is what we want to do in Nigeria. We don’t want monkey to work again, baboon go chop. “We don’t want anybody to die, we want everybody to live, we want the baboon to live, we want them to join monkey in working; we want the baboon to join the monkey to work, we want the two of them to live and chop so when they talk about dying, pray for them to live. Let nobody tell you he is from this place or that place, vote for competence, vote for people who have worked. “In Osun State today, go and check how much they owe. Everything that is happening here is because you voted for the wrong party. Vote for LP, vote for the future of your children. We are going to introduce you to a governor who will be committed to a better Osun State. That is what we want, don’t collect money, in the next four years, it will be worse, or like the chairman said, collect the money and keep it, vote for your conscience. It is your money they have stolen. Vote for a candidate that will protect your interest. Vote for LP so that your children can have a job, vote for people that will work for you. We want to change Nigeria and the only way we can change Nigeria is to remove all these people who have put Nigeria to where it is for the past 23 years. This is the time for them to go, 23 years, no road, no school, no water, no food, no light, they must go,” Obi insisted. Speaking, Lasun described Tinubu’s life and record as anonymous and lambasted him for saying the party would labour till death. He said the incumbent government of APC has not done anything in Osun to warrant re-election and boasted of victory on Saturday. “We are the ones living here, we established companies here. I will tell you they are not humans. They came four years ago and said they are giving us a financial engineer. It’s over three and a half years but the financial engineer did not engineer anything. “As if that is not enough, they said we can go and labour and die. Does a virtuous Yoruba person say such? I describe them as people of anonymous backgrounds. We don’t know them. Their life is anonymous. They just want us to see that they have money. Yorubas, can money do all things? This is the seat of Oduduwa. Anybody who calls himself a Yoruba man and has refused to imbibe the ethos of Omoluabi is not fit to be a Yoruba leader. How will you tell us to go and labour and die? They are only telling our parents that they have laboured in vain. “On Facebook, I read something that I will not get votes, but it will shock them. Saturday is here already. Politics is about your capacity to articulate your position and your intention to serve the people. But they are not serving us. Sound education and proper healthcare will be possible when I become the governor. You borrow money to invest. You finance your budget from taxes. They don’t know it. By July 16, I know Osun State will vote for me and it will shock them.” Yusuff said. In the same vein, the National Chairman of Labour Party, Julius Abure, decried Tinubu’s comment against the Labour Party and said it showed that the former Lagos State Governor lacked compassion for the suffering masses. Abure urged Osun people to vote Yusuff in order to restore dignity in hard work and put an end to corruption.