 The Rotary Club of Ibadan-Jericho Metro has stated that it remains committed to impacting the society. Samuel Kolawole, President of the club, spoke recently in Ibadan, Oyo State during its 10th anniversary. According to him, Rotary as a service club would continue to focus on service to humanity. Kolawole said that the club complemented the efforts of the government at various levels by making life better for citizens as government alone cannot do everything. The president said that provision of water, sanitation, education, maternal and child health, peace, and conflict prevention, among others were areas of focus of Rotary International. “We were at Bataki village, a remote area in Ibadan on Saturday to inaugurate a borehole; we trained and empowered people on bead making. “This year, we refurbished a block of classrooms and a library at St. Louis Secondary School, Ibadan and refurbished a clinic at Agodi Correctional Centre among others. “That is the way we help because government alone cannot do it.” He said that the club, which started in 2012 with 26 members, had grown to 78 members from different backgrounds and professions. Kolawole stated that the club had overcome a lot of challenges in 10 years of its existence, stressing that it was not easy to gather people together to achieve success. The District Governor of Rotary Club, Wuse Central, Abuja, Ayoola Oyedokun, said that Nigeria needed to replicate Rotary’s non-tribalistic, non religious and united approach in selecting its leaders. Oyedokun said that “We are all united in the idea of service and the thing that unite us is for us to impact on our various communities and not to serve ourselves but to serve others. “If we can do this as Nigerians, if we can take it upon ourselves that we want to serve everybody regardless of where they come from, if we are ready to take people into leadership positions regardless of where they come from, Nigeria will be better.” Oyedokun lauded the members of Rotary Club of Ibadan-Jericho Metro for their efforts and urged them not to relent. 