 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Operatives of the Western Nigeria Security Network Agency, codenamed “Amotekun Corps” in Osun State, have apprehended two young men for allegedly gang raping a teenage girl and filming her during the act. The suspects, Olamilekan Elijah, aged 23, and his friend Afeez Adegoroye, 24, were said to be members of a secret cult, Alora Confraternity. Parading the suspects on Wednesday, the Field Commandant of Amotekun in the state, Amitolu Shittu, said the case was reported May 14, 2022 at Iwo Local Command of the corps, and that operatives swung into action before the suspects were nabbed. Amitolu said, “Olamilekan Elijah is from Ola-Ejigbo while Adegoroye Afeez is from Oba’s compound, Bodeosi. The victim, an apprentice in Iwo, living at Oke-Bode Area of the community was lured to the house of one of the suspects, Adegoroye Afeez. The 17 year old girl was raped by the two suspects and filmed. “After the act, the suspects threatened the victim that the video recording will be released on social media if she should inform anybody of what transpired. “Her phone was seized and taken to the Police in Iwo by the suspect (reason for this not known yet). “Our investigations revealed to us that the two suspects are members of the Buccaners confraternity otherwise known as the Alora. The suspects said they only wanted to be “fine” with the girl.” It was gathered that the girl was experiencing her menstrual period when she visited Adegoroye. Adegoroye, in an interview with journalists, confessed to the act but said his friend, Elijah did not penetrate her. Narrating how the incident happened, Adegoroye said, “I am a cocoa seller from Iwo. I am married and have a child. I have known the victim since last year and we have since been in a relationship. I raped her because she refused to allow me have sex with her freely. “That was our first time in such act. My friend and myself were in the house, but he (Elijah) didn’t partake in the act.” Also speaking, Elijah said, “I am also a cocoa seller and married with a child. I did not partake in the act. She (victim) is a girlfriend of brother Afeez (Adegoroye). We both rented the room. When she came, I was outside to put the generator set on. “I later came into the room and met them discussing. Later, an argument ensued between the two over sex. At that time, I was making a video of myself. The girl hit my phone on the ground during the struggle and I held her hands. This was the time brother Afeez (Adegoroye) penetrated her (sex). “I did not take part in it, but I did record the act on my phone. I merely recorded her to teach her a lesson,” Elijah confessed. The two admitted to be members of Alora confraternities. They said they joined the group at Igbajo Polytechnic. 