…As party fixes June 1 for Convention  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) has appointed its National Secretary,  Dipo Olalokun, as the Chairman of the Party’s National Convention Planning Committee. The party has also approved June 1 to hold its convention in Abuja. Speaking during the inauguration of the committee for the forthcoming convention, the National Chairman of the party, Prof Rufai Alkali assured the delegates and members that the party will carry everyone along to ensure that everyone participates and no one is left out. “As you are aware the party started preparations for primaries on Monday with the issue of screening at the state level. Tuesday being 17th of May there were appeals, Wednesday being the 18th of May we have primaries going on all over the country and Thursday (today) there will be another small window for appeals for those who are participating in the primaries who may wish to raise one or two observations about the primaries. Then from then on we continue with our programme of screening and appeal for primaries for House of Representatives, for Senate, for governors and then finally with Presidential Primary.” Prof Alkali stated that the Party as a tradition has to constitute a convention planning committee and that committee has to be responsible for planning, organising and conducting the entire national convention activities and it is at that convention that the election for the Presidential candidate will be conducted. “We are going to have our convention on the 1st of June which is Wednesday and hopefully it will spill over to Thursday depending on the series of activities. If they are concluded early enough, but if it cannot conclude then it will spill over to Thursday the 2nd of June. All these we are supposed to immediately after concluding, prepare and submit our candidates to INEC and then with the guidelines for this year’s elections. Expressing confidence in the organisational ability of the Secretary, Alkali said, “The convention planning committee is headed by the national secreatary of our great party, Chief Dipo Olalokun and then there will be a number of other committees, about six to seven and one other committee, the chairman of the planning committee is also going to head the secretariat. We are confident his Committee will organise a smooth convention. “I want to use this medium to call on all our members nationwide that everybody is going to be carried along so that people can participate fully to ensure that nobody is forgotten as much as possible but even if the people are not involved in the sub-committees, they will also be involved in other assignments along the lines,” he said. Responding on behalf of the members of the committees, Olalokun said, “We really appreciate what the chairman of the fastest growing political party has done here today. On behalf of the members of the National Convention Planning Committee, I want to say thank to our Chairman and the Party for giving us this task. “The task is huge but by the grace of God and support of the members of the great NNPP, I hereby promise that we are going to deliver. We are not unaware of the task ahead of us because this convention that is coming has dual purposes. Apart from using it to ratify actions taken by the NWC, it’s also going to be an occasion where the Presidential candidate of our great party, the person that will wear the tag of NNPP during the 2023 general elections will emerge. “So we appreciate the enormous task ahead of us. We already have a time limit to organise a befitting national convention. We have done it in the past, in short just to chronicle history we want to call it the eight wonders of the world. Within a very shortest time a very wonderful convention was organised and implemented. We are going to tap from the knowledge of those who organised the successful NNPP national convention. “So we pledge that we are going to succeed and we promise the NNPP leadership sir, that we are going to deliver a very befitting national convention that will be talk of the Town, that will give all NNPP members the voice to talk and is going to produce the person that will become the next President of Nigeria come May 29, 2023.” 