 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello, has declared that he has no anointed son to support in the forthcoming 2023 gubernatorial election in the state. He rather disclosed that all the aspirants vying for the state’s government house after his tenure are his sons. “I don’t have any anointed son to take over the Niger State government house. I’m not supporting any particular aspirant because all of them are, according to your word, my sons. So, I do not have a particular son not to talk about anointed son to succeed me.” The former Deputy Chairman of the defunct APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) that midwife the present National Working Committee (NWC) led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, told The Point, during his screening exercise for Senatorial position that the APC has really showcased the greatness it is made of with the ongoing process which began with a successful selling and returning of expression of interest and nomination forms. He argued that with what is on ground, the Party is prepared to retain the Presidential Villa and all the states, national assembly members under its control and even increase the number. “I am very impressed with the organisation and the response of the aspirants. APC has never had it better. The process is very smooth, the aspirants comported themselves, there is no rancour anywhere. This means we are ready for 2023. “It’s well organised. This is the first time I am coming for Party procedure and it’s well organised. You can see the atmosphere is serene, no noise anywhere. It shows the Party is well organised, well prepared for the task ahead.” Governor Bello is vying for senatorial seat at the completion of his second term as the Executive governor of Niger State. He commended the NWC of the APC for the job well done and the screening Committees for living up to demand of the Party by doing a very good job, adding that the process will definitely produce quality and qualified candidates that will keep the Party’s flag flying. About 14 aspirants including the incumbent Deputy Governor Ahmed Ketso, the publisher of Blueprint Newspaper, Mohammed Idris Malagi, former Minister of Sports, Sani Ndanusa, Bako Shettima, Bala Faruk, Umar Bago, Idris Usman Makanta, Isa Kawu are jostling for the party’s ticket. Others include Zakari Abubakar, Mohammed Nda, Senator Mohammed Bima Enagi, Muhammad Sani Legbo Kutigi, Abdullahi Isah Kantara and Isah Liman Kantigi. 