 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Former Information Minister during late General Sani Abacha’s regime, Ikeobasi Mokelu, has joined the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential race. The former minister, who collected his expression of interest and nomination forms on Tuesday, said in his statement of intent “This is a most critical time in our nation’s history as the presidential election is coming up next year 2023. It marks the prelude to the end of the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR. It, therefore, throws up the most crucial question: “Who can take up the leadership of Nigeria from where the current administration stops, and be poised to lead the country to greater heights? “The answer clearly lies in the emergence of a capable, tested, trusted, safe and experienced hand. My purpose of writing this intimate letter to you is to brief you of my readiness after series of consultations to contest for the position of President in 2023, and to seek your blessing, guidance and support.” In answering the questions himself, Mokelu said, “This is in the conviction that I am eminently qualified to take on the challenge. I base my conviction on the following rational attributes; I have rich political and polity pedigree. I was born and mentored by two great nationalists and independence fighters, Chief Hon. P. I. Mokelu, a former member of the Defunct Onitsha Providential Assembly in 1949 and Chief Hon. Mrs. Janet Mokelu, the first ever elected female Parliamentarian in Nigeria and also a former Member of the Eastern Region House of Assembly, representing Enugu Urban, the Capital of Eastern Region of Nigeria. “Chief Mrs. Janet Mokelu was also a member of the Eastern Region House of Chiefs. Both parents held different positions of trust and responsibility in the then party, the NCNC and Government of the Region.” In a statement signed and issued by Hon. Timothy Amah, a member of his campaign Organisation at the Taraba Hall of the International Conference Center, Abuja, where the Chief Ikeobasi Mokelu Campaign Organization collected the Nomination Forms, confirmed the development and assured that Chief Mokelu will emerge the candidate of the party during the primaries because of his experience. He said that the aspirant who made the payment on Wednesday evening offered himself for Presidency that will apply the Values of Honour, Character and Integrity and considers his Presidency as one that will apply the values of honour,  character an integrity in the application of efficient and sustainable governance at all tiers of government. He has the conviction that he is eminently qualified to take on the challenge. 