 Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress, has said that he would eliminate banditry and address insecurity in general if elected as President in the coming general election. Tinubu said this while addressing APC delegates in Niger State at the Government House, Minna, on Friday. He said, “We will not give up on banditry, we will not run away. Bandits will not take over our lands. With me as President, forget bandits. It is now time to change the calendar of bandits, to tell them that there is no business good in killing people no matter how much you make. “We will eliminate all of them, we will conquer them, we will beat them. That is why I am out to run for President of Nigeria.” The National Leader of APC said that he regarded himself as the only presidential aspirant of the party, urging the delegates to back him. He stated, “I am the only one in this race, I don’t know about the others. I am running for the Presidency of Nigeria; I don’t know where the others are running to. I know the road to prosperity, safety, clean environment, development of our nation and infrastructure because I had done it all in Lagos State. “The others do not know the road, don’t follow them. The only person you should follow is the person who knows the road. Follow me, I know the road and I will not mislead you. They do not have my brains but I do have enough brains.” On those criticising him on his health status, he said, “Where are their track records? How many councillors, local government chairmen and chairpersons, members of the house of assemblies, House of Representatives or Senators have they produced? I have produced them. “Now, they are pointing the wrong fingers at me. I do not worry about them. God will forgive them because they are blind. They have empty brains. They claim I am too old, that I cannot stand without shaking, that my legs are bad, that is why when the governor asked me to sit, I said I will stand. “A President’s job is not to climb mountains or do wrestling or carry concrete cement. It is to think and perform with his brain. We are not looking for someone to fight a WWE wrestling match, we are looking for a thinker to provide security for us, we are looking for a doer who will look at economic opportunities and turn them around to prosperity. “Someone who knows the way to the education of our children; it is not about what we will eat because at this age, we cannot overeat. We must leave our children and grandchildren with enough opportunities and prosperity. We have what it takes, we have the smartness, I have it better than others.” When the Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, asked the delegates for their choice of presidential candidate, they chorused ‘Tinubu’. 