.Supervisor identifies poor computer usage, recommends mock exams for first timers  Some candidates for the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination in Enugu State have scored the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board high for the hitch-free conduct of the examination in the state. The examination which was Computer Based Test went on simultaneously across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. The exam which began on Friday, May 6, 2022 will end on Monday, May 9, 2022. A NAN correspondent, who visited some CBT centres in Enugu on Saturday, reported that the exam was conducted smoothly with security personnel present at the centres. Speaking to NAN at the TETFUND Centre, a supervisor at the University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus who pleaded anonymity, said everything went on smoothly at the centre. He rated JAMB high for its efficiency and conduct of the exam, saying that there were no computer breakdowns, power or network failure at the centre. “The exam started yesterday, and we held three sessions with 250 candidates for each session, and today the same number will be having theirs. “Glad enough, no candidate has reported any issue regarding the CBT at the centre. “We maintain the necessary measures stipulated by the examiner such as wearing face masks and avoidance of objects that will incriminate them. “They have also been addressed and told what is expected of them, some JAMB officials and centre technicians were on the ground to handle possible network and computer breakdowns,” he said. A candidate, Miss Christabel Chinaza, described the exam as simple for those that read for the exam, adding that she did not experience any issues throughout the exam. “I read past questions for the exam, it was very simple for me as I finished ahead of the two hours given, and I did not encounter any issue throughout the exam. Michael Adindu shared the same experience with Chinaza, saying that the exam was fun. “The subjects were simple except Physics I encountered little challenge but in all, I am expecting a score of 250 and above,” he said. He thanked JAMB for making the processes very easy and simple. At the Institute of Management and Technology center, candidates expressed satisfaction with the CBT, describing it as hitch-free. Okon Destiny said the exam was easy, saying; “the systems were working faster and I finished before time. “I expect to gain admission next year because I take my time to go through the questions many times, and they were just simple except physics,” he said. A parent, who pleaded anonymity, said the environment under which the exam was conducted was secure as only candidates were allowed in after a thorough search by the officials of the Civil Defence Corps. He commended JAMB for making the processes easy for the candidates. However, Ajao Adelodun, a supervisor with JAMB has recommended mock examination for first timers in the UTME to strengthen preparations. Adelodun, in an interview with NAN on Saturday, spoke on the difficulties in using computer by some candidates sitting for the ongoing UTME. Mock is an examination introduced for candidates to test their ability and introduce them to the formula of questions and how to approach them on computer. It is considered as practice exams before the final examinations. According to Adelodun, since the examination is Computer Based Test, it will be an advantage for those who have a pre-knowledge on the use of the systems during the mock. “One of the problems we have observed in the ongoing JAMB UTME is that some of the candidates are struggling with the systems, which is a clear indication that they are lagging. “So, I urge parents after registering their children for JAMB, to go extra mile and make sure they enter them for mock examination, which usually holds before the JAMB proper. “We observed that those that sat for mock examination exhibited more confidence and were able to manage well the time given, while other keep calling us for directions,” he said. Adelodun also tasked candidates to avail themselves on the use of computer and give priority to it because of the value the usage would add to their academic career. (NAN) 