 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO An 18-year-old boy, Arole Afeez, has been convicted by a Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State for stealing from a Church in the state. The convict was dragged to court on three counts bordering on conspiracy, intent to commit felony and stealing. Afeez pleaded guilty to the allegations. Police prosecutor, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Abiodun Fagboyinbo, explained to the court that Afeez, alongside three others now at large, sneaked into the Mountain of Fulfillment Church, Osogbo and stole a musical instrument. Fagboyinbo said that the offence was committed on April 26, around 6:30am. According to him, some of the Church members who had visited the church for prayer saw Afeez carting away the musical instrument alongside others. He said that the church members pursued the robbers but were only able to catch Afeez while other suspects disappeared. The arrested suspect was later taken to Dada Estate Police Station, Osogbo. The charge against him read that “Arole Afeez, and three others now at large, on April 26, 2022 at about 6:30am at Zone 9, Oke-Arugbo, Osogbo in the Osogbo Magisterial District, did conspire together to commit felony. “You (Afeez) and three others now at large on the same date, place and time did enter into Mountain of Fulfillment Church, Osogbo, with intent to commit a felony. “That you and others now at large, at the same time and place, did steal jazz musical instruments valued at N20, 000, property of Mountain of Fulfillment Church.” Fagboyinbo said that Afeez committed the offences contrary to and punishable under sections 506, 412 and 390(9) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II, Laws of Osun State, 2002. He presented the stolen musical instrument to the court as evidence. The convict didn’t have any lawyer to represent him in court. Trial Magistrate Adebola Ajanaku found the defendant guilty as charged. She ordered that he should be remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre and adjourned the case till May 31 for sentencing. 