 Prof. Banji Akintoye, leader of Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide, has told the United Nations Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, to visit scenes of herdsmen and terrorists’ attacks rather than listening to rhetorics by President Muhammadu Buhari. Guterres arrived in Nigeria on Tuesday for a two-day official visit. Akintoye described the country as a failed state in a statement signed on Wednesday and made available by his Communications Manager, Maxwell Adeleye. The statement quoted Akintoye as saying that Buhari had mismanaged the nation’s diversity by running a “government of the Fulani by the Fulani and for the Fulani.” Titled, ‘Your visit to Nigeria, a charade if you don’t visit the theatres of the criminality of Fulani terrorists in South, Middle-Belt’ – Akintoye’s statement read that
“Your Excellency cannot get the true picture of how close to the precipice Nigeria is unless you visit the theatres of the criminality of this government. “Visit the Middle Belt, behold the atrocities of Fulani herdsmen and marvel. Visit the South-West. Visit Ifon, also in Ondo State, whose traditional ruler was murdered by Fulani herdsmen. Visit Southern Kaduna where ethnic cleansing is a daily activity of the murderous Fulani nihilists. “The same thing is happening in Taraba, Plateau, Niger, Ogun and Oyo states where Fulani herdsmen maim, rape, kill farmers and destroy farmlands in their land-grabbing drive across the southern region of the country. “Your Excellency, the list is endless! And, the atrocities have not abated. The Buhari administration refuses to allow the victims arm and defend themselves whereas the murderers are allowed to roam about with AK-47 looting, raping, maiming, and killing. “You must be aware of how the secret security service of the Buhari administration invaded the home of Yoruba self-determination activist, Sunday Adeyemo Ighoho, killing and maiming innocent and law-abiding citizens and destroying property worth millions of dollars. “The Nigerian court system has described the invasion as a lawless and vagrant violation of Igboho’s rights. Costs running into billions of Naira were awarded against the Nigerian government. “But, the Buhari government is lawless and cherry-picks which court decisions to obey and which to disregard. In saner climes which I am sure you are familiar with, the law is no respecter of persons and court judgments are binding on all. Not so with the Buhari administration. “Hence, the generally acclaimed estimation of Nigeria today as a failed state. But, before the situation gets out of hand, please act quickly!” 