 Parties in the Deeper Life High school saga where some senior students and teachers allegedly molested and abused a junior student, Don-Davis Archibong, have agreed to an out of court settlement. In a peace and reconciliation reception organized by Deeper Life High school on Friday, which is in fulfilment of the terms of settlement, Don-Davis’ mother, Deborah Archibong, expressed happiness that all the children involved in the case are alive to witness the occasion. She recalled that her son, Don-Davis chose Deeper Life High School because of the sound moral standard and discipline the school was known for. Mrs. Archibong appreciated the teachers, students and the principal for the co-operation, noting that she has seen Christ in all of them. “I am honestly happy because all the children involved are alive. For the parties that were involved which I am one of them, I would say we should all be on the learning side. “Don-Davis came to Deeper Life High school for discipline and good morals. He decided to come to Deeper Life High school because of those two things; and even looking at the students, you can see discipline in them. “Let us forget the devil came in, everything will be fine . The good news I want to trend from social media is that I like the co-operation of teachers, principal and every other person. When I came in, I was wearing tight because I thought it would be anyhow but I see Christ in every one of them. “I know that Deeper Life High school has come to stay.” Deborah Archibong said. At the Peace and Reconciliation Reception, the lead counsel to Deeper Life High School, Taiwo Kupolati SAN, commended the High Court Judge, Honourable Justice Ntong Ntong for initiating the peace process. Kupolati also appreciated all the parties for embracing peace and advised parents to seek and boldly enforce peace as any who does not have peace is not entitled to good life. “The Honourable Judge suggested that the parties should settle the case outside court. It is to the glory of God that after two conferences, both parties and individuals concerned, the school, and the children involved, came together to reconcile. “We got a consent judgement based on the resolution of the parties for togetherness and their clear desire to unite the students. The realisation and conviction of the parties to secure and live a peaceful life seeing that these students are the future of this generation, make it imperative for resolve the misunderstanding. Today is to celebrate, and affirm the principle of peace. “I want us to know that as parents, we must seek and boldly enforce peace because he who does not have peace is not entitled to good life. I thank Deborah Archibong so much for agreeing to have this matter resolved at no financial cost because of the future of the children. I thank you for your understanding. All the bad memories and negative publicity are gone.” On his part, counsel to Mrs Archibong, Sampson Awoji, thanked Deeper Life High school for keeping to the terms of settlement. Earlier in his remark, the State Overseer of Deeper Life Bible Church, Akwa Ibom Pastor Emmanuel Amaeze, represented by Pastor Timothy Adewuyi, urged everyone to learn how to live in peace. He noted that there is time for everything, adding that the time for disagreement had passed. He described students of Deeper Life High School as people with distinction. Highpoint of the peace and reconciliation reception was the presentation of memorabilia to Don-Davis Archibong as a parting gift from the Deeper Life High School. It can be recalled Don-Davis Archibong’s parents in suit No: HU/197/2021 had sued two senior students of Deeper Life High School, Uyo Campus, Shalom Ibikunle and Ola Feyisetan, the Principal Mrs. Ndidi Solomon and some teachers for abuse, molestation and neglect of their son while in the hostel. 