 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Personnel of the Osun State Police Command, Osogbo, Inspector Medinat Badmus, has told the panel investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of a police Corporal, Rauf Fawale, that she saw three operatives of the Department of State Security beating Fawale with sticks. Badmus identified three DSS operatives, namely David Olowoporoku, Bamidele and Ajanaku, as those who allegedly attacked and beat Fawale on the midnight of January 14, 2021, on the occasion of her birthday at Riverside Bar and Lounge, Oke-Fia area, Osogbo. The witness, who was formerly attached to the Dada Estate Divisional Police Station, Osogbo, alongside the deceased Fawale, explained that she saw Olowoporoku that night at the scene of the attack after Fawale fell on the ground and passed out. Fawale was said to have sustained injuries on his head allegedly owing to the beating he received before he died in the hospital a few days later. She said, “On January 14, 2021, I went to the Riverside Bar after my husband invited me to celebrate my birthday. Afterwards, I drove my car along Oke-Fia. Then, I saw people beating some people there. When I saw the way they were wielding sticks and beating someone, I thought they wanted to come and raid the bike men there. As they were beating the people, they (the DSS personnel) were screaming, ‘call patrol.’ “So, when I heard ‘call patrol’, I decided to come down from my car to identify the persons, whether they were police officers, but the faces (of the persons) that I saw were not that of police officers. They were beating people there. Someone among the people they were beating fell on the ground. “I then summoned courage and moved closer to one of them, who was later identified as David Olowoporoku. Fortunately for me, the cloth he was putting on that day was very thick, so I held his cloth and prevented him from running away. “They (Olowoporoku and others) wanted to beat me too, so I started shouting: I am a police officer and this is my jurisdiction.” They were three in number that day; the other two ran. The okada men were telling me that the two other DSS operatives were running. In order not to allow him to run away, I moved with him and we both fell inside (the) gutter around that place. I sustained an injury. “Later, I saw the manager of Riverside (Bar) asking me not to leave him, (saying) that’s how they (DSS operatives) used to come and disturb them at the lounge. Later, I got to know that the persons that ran away were Bamidele and Ajanaku. “Before the arrival of the people that pursued Bamidele and Ajanaku, I entered my car. A bike man took the victim that fell and I followed him. The bike man first moved to Alekuwodo, I drove my car and the okada men assisted me in holding Olowoporoku at the back of my car. Getting to Morning Star Hospital, he said they didn’t answer them and asked me to take him to the UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital. “On getting to the hospital, it was then I saw the face of the victim and identified him as Corporal Rauf Fawale. Olowoporoku introduced himself to me and said himself, Bamidele and Ajanaku are DSS operatives. I asked Olowoporoku what led to the beating of Fawale. “He said, ‘mummy, I don’t know.’ A senior DSS officer, Femi, that I called on the phone came down to the hospital and identified Olowoporoku as a DSS operative. He (Femi) asked him if what I said was true and he (Olowoporoku) didn’t deny it. He said he beat Fawale Rauf alongside Bamidele and Ajanaku.” The presiding Chief Magistrate, Olusegun Ayilara, adjourned the matter till May 18 for further hearing. 