 Professor Kingsley Moghalu, a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, has obtained the presidential nomination and expression of interest forms of the African Democratic Congress for N25million. In an interview with journalists at the ADC national secretariat in Abuja, Moghalu said that politics in Nigeria should be detribalised for the nation to grow and take its rightful place in the comity of nations. He stated that there were potential leaders in every tribe and religion, hence, it was high time technocrats, intellectuals and experienced people took power from career politicians in the country. According to him, geo-political zones that had yet to produce president in the country should be given the opportunity to do so. If elected as president, he promised to tackle the challenges of insecurity, inflation as well as the crisis in the education sector. Moghalu said, “As president, I will reform the Nigeria Police Force. I will increase the police from 250,000 to one million operatives. It is through effective intelligence gathering that we can fight terrorism and win. “We will take out whatever threatens the nation’s security, because the political will to secure Nigeria is there.” On the economy, the former CBN chief said that he would strengthen the management of the apex bank to achieve true independence necessary for tackling inflation. He said that “Inflation erodes the ability of households to save and devalues the purchasing power of the currency. “If there is high inflation, then it is a performance failure. When I become president, I will ensure we have an independent CBN with competent leadership.” Moghalu added that he would ensure that, at least, 20 per cent of the country’s annual budget would be spent on education in order to revamp the sector and permanently end the recurring ASUU strike. The ADC national chairman, Chief Ralph Okey Nwosu, said that with credible people joining the presidential race, Nigeria was on the march to greatness. 