 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO Scores of members of the ruling All Progressives Congress in Osun State on Sunday protested the delay in the announcement of the results of primary elections conducted in the state. The protesters, who are supporters of an aspirant for Osogbo Federal Constituency, Abosede Ogo-Oluwa, stormed Government House , GRA Oke-Fia, Osogbo and demanded that the result of the primary election conducted on Friday be declared by the committee. The aggrieved members of the party called on the leadership of the party, to as a matter of urgency, announce Ogo-Oluwa, whom they said is the winner of the primary election. They posited that continuos delay in the announcement of the results as and when due may lead to manipulation. Speaking, Ajadi Olohuntosin from Osogbo Local Government, wondered why the committee saddled with the responsibility of conducting the election would delay the announcement of the results, appealing to them to do the needful as the people of the constituency had waited enough to here the official announcement. Olohuntosin further explained that from all indications and results released and backed with video clips and pictures of voters lined up for Abosede Ogo-Oluwa during the primary elections as seen and viewed by general public in all designated wards, no doubt that Abosede Ogo-Oluwa remained the winner of the primary election. He urged the leaders of the party such as Chief Bisi Akande, Engr Sola Akinwumi, Governor Gboyega Oyetola, the party chairman, Prince Gboyega Famodun, former Deputy Governor, Mrs Titi-laoye Ponle and other stakeholders of the party to let people’s votes count by prevailing on the committee to announce the results. Echoing similar views, Abibat Salaudeen from Olorunda Local Government said they would resist any attempt by anyone to influence the election results. Salaudeen said they decided to stage a peaceful protest so as to let the public know that they have heard that one of the contestants has been carrying bags of money around to upturn the results of the primary election which was won. He urged the wife of the president, Alhaja Aisha Buhari, wife of Osun state Governor, Alhaja Kafayat Oyetola and other to come to their aid. Meanwhile, confusion has enveloped the primary elections of APC in the state as conflicting results emerge on social media, apportioning victories and defeats to different aspirants. While some supporters have been congratulating their aspirants on their victories in the exercise based on the social media results, others have been alleging rigging and manipulation by leaders of the party. This drama is coming even as official results of the primary were yet to be released by the committee. The state had opted for direct primary which enabled all party members holding valid membership cards to vote for the aspirants of their choice at each ward’s collation centre of the 332 wards in the state. As of Sunday evening, official results of the State Assembly primary held on Thursday were yet to be released. Also, results of the House of Representatives primary held on Friday were still being expected even as elections to pick senatorial candidates were held. Non-release of the results has brought about bickerings on social media by supporters of aspirants, especially those who were allegedly defeated in the contest. Some aspirants have taken to their social media handles to announce themselves winners and also posted unofficial results to back their claims. One of the members of the ruling party in the state wrote on his Facebook page, “The Ijesa North (Federal Constituency) is the funniest. When the committee did not announce anyone, everyone was just announcing himself. Now, all the four candidates have declared themselves winners. “But the truth is that reconciliation is ongoing. They will settle soon.” 