 Some youths, on Thursday, stormed the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress in Abuja to protest against the alleged plan by the party to impose a presidential candidate. Report indicated that the protesters arrived at the party’s headquarters around 8am. Vehicular movements along Blantyre Street, Wuse 2, Abuja were disrupted for some hours as a result of the protest. The protesters, under the aegis of APC North-South Patriotic Coalition (Youth Wing), were flanked with banners with an inscription such as: ‘Imposing former President Goodluck Jonathan as the APC presidential candidate would ultimately kill the party.’ Alhaji Toyin Rahim raised questions on how the party would justify bringing someone they once described as corrupt and incompetent back to power. Rahim urged the leadership of the party against taking wrong steps that could push the party out of power. He said, “The rumour has been around for some time now that former President Jonathan was being wooed by some power players within the APC to join the party and fly its presidential ticket for the 2023 election. “What began as a mere rumour seems to be gathering momentum so close to the presidential primary of our great party. This Jonathan project cannot fly simply because it cannot help our party and we want to do our best to ensure that our party does not fall victim to ill-advised action that can push the party out of power. “One of the most telling negative implications of such an action is that the APC does not have anyone of electoral value who can win an election for us except we smuggle in a former president we defeated seven years ago for his glaring incompetence as president. “In APC today, there are presidential aspirants with credible pedigrees and humongous electoral value and capacity. It is not only unnecessary to smuggle Jonathan into our great party, but it is also self-indicting and means that our party’s performance in office has been worse than an administration that Nigerians thoroughly rejected and voted APC in 2015,” he said. 