 The Federal Government has indicated that the strike embarked upon by the Academic Staff Union of Universities and other unions in the nation’s universities would soon be rested in view of the agreements reached at the recent meetings with the leadership of the unions. The ASUU, the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities, the Non-Academic Staff Union, and the Association of Academic Technologists are on strike over the call for improved welfare packages, better working conditions and implementation of agreements reached with the Federal Government between 2009 and 2015. Olajide Oshundun, Head of Press and Public Relations in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, said in a statement on Friday that vital agreement had been reached between the government and the unions. Oshundun quoted the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, in the statement as saying, “We had a cordial and fruitful discussion. We looked at the issues dispassionately and reached some agreements to the satisfaction of everybody in attendance.” It added that the meeting was moved out of the Labour Ministry because government involved some interested parties in a bid to resolve the dispute with the unions. At the meeting were the Chief of Staff to the President and Chairman of the meetings, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari; the Chairman of the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III; and the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria and co-chair of NIREC, Rev. Sampson Ayokunle. The negotiation team also comprised the Ministers of Labour, Finance, Education, ASUU leaders and other stakeholders. The Minister was further quoted in the statement as saying, “We discussed. Everybody was happy. We reached some agreements and we hope that by next week, those agreements will start maturing. “The four unions will also go and brief their members so that they can call off the strike.” It read that the issues in the 2009 agreement, such as the renegotiation of the condition of service and the wage review, could be concluded next week. 