…As Oyegun committee screens aspirants  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Following the congratulatory message sent to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar for emerging the Peoples Democratic Party’s standard bearer by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a Presidential aspirant in the All Progressives Congress (APC), a member of the National working Committee (NWC) has warned against what he called subtle attempt by some presidential aspirants to intimidate members of the NWC, other presidential aspirants and indeed the party in the build up to the party’s Special Convention. The former Lagos State governor invited Atiku to presidential contest proper which the APC chieftain who does not want to be named in print said such invitation was uncalled for since Tinubu was yet to emerge as the APC flagbearer unlike Atiku who is a substantive candidate of the PDP. Lauding the PDP presidential primary at the weekend, Tinubu had commended Atiku on the Conduct of the primary, and expressed confidence that both political gladiators will square up in the presidential election proper. However, the party chieftain noted that
until Asiwaju Tinubu emerges at the party’s Convention, any attempt by him to presumptuously invite a candidate of  another party to a duel amounts to intimidating the APC,  the NWC and therefore uncalled for. He maintained that the party and NWC will not be intimidated by anyone and urged members to remain committed to electing a candidate that will serve the interest of the party. “The NWC is here to serve members and the interest of the party. We must not allow any aspirant to intimidate us or create the impression that he is ordained to pick the ticket of the party. “For many of us in the NWC the statement credited to one of the aspirants, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is unnecessary and from my point of view, is aimed at intimidating the NWC, and to some extent the delegates and aspirants as well. “With that said, it is important that all aspirants be reminded that the NWC is commited to ensuring that the best among the aspirants emerge in a process that suits the peculiar need of the party and aspiration of its members beyond the President Mohammadu Buhari era. “For starters, let me say that the interest of all the Aspirants are represented in the NWC and therefore there’s no need to worry”. Our source disclosed that the comment credit to Tinubu jolted presidential aspirants with some expressing concern that the NWC may have sold out ahead of the Special Convention. Among other things the Jagaban had said; ” I welcome the victory of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the just concluded primary. I look forward to squaring up with him as a worthy opponent in the coming election. “I have known the former Vice President as a formidable politician and a patriot who believes in the unity and progress of our dear country. “As we move further into the election season, I charge the PDP presidential candidate and all political actors across party lines that we should make this election season one that is devoid of bitterness, rancour and strife. “We should make our campaigns peaceful and issue based. Election season should be a festival of ideas that will uplift our country and improve the living condition of all our people,” Tinubu stated. Meanwhile, the National Leader of the APC was on Monday screened by the John Oyegun-led Presidential Screening Committee at the Transcript Hilton, Abuja. Others screened include Pastor Tunde Bakare, Rotimi Amaechi, Governor Dave Umahi, Sani Ahmed Yerima, Ibikunle Amosun, Ken Nnamani, Emeka Nwajiuba, Felix Nicholas, Uju Kennedy Ohanenye and Ajayi Borofice. 