 The Federal Capital Territory Police Command has paraded three suspected killers of Stephenie Terungwa, a female National Youths Service Corps member. According to Sunday Babaji, Commissioner of Police, FCT Command, the Maitama Police Division, on April 15, received information about the body of a middle-aged lady lying on the road. Babaji said that the crime scene investigators drafted to the scene removed the body of the youth corp member to the hospital where she was confirmed dead by a doctor on duty. He said that the initial effort to profile the victim facially proved abortive as it was deformed allegedly by exposure to a corrosive substance. The CP said that discrete investigation revealed that the deceased was Terungwa Stephenie, a 26-year-old corp member who resides at City Homes Estate, Lokogoma with one Edward Achadu. He said it was discovered that she left home with her one-year-and-five-months-old son on April 14 but never returned. “A day later, the son was recovered at Holy Trinity Catholic Church upon a call placed through to one of the paternal relatives. “Discrete and painstaking investigations by the Tactical and Intelligence Assets of the Command attached to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigations Department led to the arrest of three suspects,” the CP said. The arrested suspects were a 26-year-old-lady, a 36-year-old-man, and another man who is about 35 years old, all residents of Oguta Lake, Maitama area of the FCT. Babaji alleged that the suspects murdered the victim so as to separate her from Edward Achadu in order to pave the way for the female suspect, Jenifer Temba, to have Achadu to herself. Investigation by the police has reportedly been intensified to lead to the arrest of fleeing accomplices. The suspects, he said, would be charged to court upon conclusion of investigation. When interviewed by journalists, the female suspect denied involvement in the killing, saying that the deceased came to her house to collect a mobile phone on the day she was found dead. She claimed that the male suspects disclosed to her that they would kidnap the deceased for ransom. However, another suspect alleged that Temba invited him to help her scare the deceased from her man, stressing that on Stephanie’s arrival at Temba’s residence, he was the one who opened the gate for her. The suspect, who claimed to have met two other men who tied the deceased up before he departed from the premises, said that he later heard that Stephanie had been murdered. One other male suspect in the ring said he was contracted by Temba, alongside his friend who is currently at large, to help her scare the deceased. He said that he only held and tied her as instructed by the female suspect before leaving Temba’s residence. He said that the female suspect called him later in the night to inform him that she didn’t know why she killed the decreased. “She held my led and was begging me to help her dispose off the body after which she called someone who brought a car for her. “The person left the car which we later used to carry the body to where we dumped it at about 3am,” he said, adding that he was paid the sum of N100,000. 