 BY AKINWALE ABOLUWADE With May 30 the set date for the presidential primaries and May 11 date for governorship primaries in the All Progressives Congress ahead of the 2023 general elections, things are getting set for the ruling political party to unveil its standard-bearers for the number one positions in the presidential and governorship races in the land. And with Governor Yahya Bello of Kogi State setting the pace by picking up the party’s nomination and expression of interest forms in the APC, other presidential aspirants have begun to follow suit by taking turns to cough out the whooping N100 million each to obtain the party’s forms to confirm their seriousness to get nominated as the candidate to run. Of the N100 million, N30 million is for the expression of interest form and N70 million is for the nomination form while the party fixed N50 million for governorship aspirants, N20 million and N10 million for senatorial and House of Representatives aspirants respectively, and N2 million for House of Assembly aspirants in the states with a caveat that aspirants under age 40 would get a 50 per cent discount on the fees while women and persons living with disabilities would pay only for the expression of interest forms. Among many other Nigerians, the former Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi, said that it should not be heard that a country like Nigeria with high rate of poverty, encourages high cost of nomination forms for elective positions. But, amidst the gale of controversies that trailed the issue, political pundits said that buying of the forms, on one hand, is a show of seriousness on the parts of the aspirants as it would formalize their interests. In fact, in the opinion of many Nigerians, it is an exercise aimed at separating the boys from the men among those contending for the number one positions (national and state levels) in the land within the APC fold. Going by what the Chairman of the APC, Abdullahi Adamu, said, the party decided to put its presidential nomination form at N100 million because of the importance of the office of the Nigerian president as the contest for the Nigerian presidency is not a contest of the motor park union or the scrambling for the stool of an Emir. Adamu explained in an interview with the Voice of America Hausa Service recently that “If a presidential aspirant cannot mobilise, at least, ten thousand supporters to raise such an amount, that person is not a serious contestant. “We are talking about the president of Nigeria, not the emir of your town. Now when the emir of your town dies the person seeking to replace him will spend more than N100 million for just one emirate.” Among the top contenders for the presidential ticket in the APC are the former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Yahaya Bello, and the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. Also aspiring Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba; former Senate President, Ken Nnamani; Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige; Cross River State, Ben Ayade; the Ebonyi State governor, David Umahi; Senator Rochas Okorocha, Ihechukwu Dallas Chima, Usman Iwu, Nyesome Wike, Tein Jack-Rich and Adamu Garba. Former governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun and Governor Kayode Fayemi, among others are expected to declare their aspirations. As the scramble for presidential ticket within the ruling party hots up, the People’s Democratic Party, arguably the leading opposition political party in the land and other political parties are working round the clock to tidy up in readiness for the big contest in 2023. With the issue of zoning of the presidential position to the South playing up, the North is dancing forth and back on whether to concede presidency to the zone as President Muhammadu Buhari who is from the North would have spent two terms of four years by May 29, 2023. Although the presidential aspirants from the South West are prominent with a strong support base, the hope of the South West to clinch the APC ticket is being challenged by their swelling number. Of the 7,800 delegates from the six geo-political zones of the country, a total of 1,568 from the South West which comes second after the North West geopolitical zone with 1,924 delegates, would be voting at the APC primary. This means that the aspirants from the zone would fight for support from the 1,568 delegates and then prospect for more support from other zones who may also be fielding aspirants. Tinubu and Osinbajo are undoubtedly big fishes in the South West. While Tinubu, who is also the national leader of APC may have a lead in Lagos, Osun and Oyo states, the same could not be said in Ogun, Osinbajo’s stronghold; and Ekiti and Ondo where Fayemi is believed to hold sway. With the support of Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, Teslim Kolawole Folarin from Oyo State and Rauf Aregbesola from Osun, watchers believe that Osinbajo may have a fair share of the delegates from Oyo and Osun states. On the chances of Tinubu to clinch the party’s ticket, Abdulmumin Jibrin, the Director-General of Tinubu Support Group Management Council, said that Tinubu’s hope is large in the primary as well as in the presidential race. On the other hand, those who are loyal to Osinbajo are not resting on their oars as they keep consulting across the six geo-political zones of the country.
At the moment, the political machineries of Osinbajo and Tinubu are desperately working round the clock to ensure that their political idols emerge as the party’s candidates. The duo, being among the top contenders in the South West, have kept the game active even as the likes of Bello, Nnamani, Amaechi, Ngige, are also oiling their engines to put up a good showing at the primary. This is coming even as the likes of Fayemi, being touted in some quarters as a fine gentle politician is also being expected to throw his hat into the ring. Interestingly, political calculations and schemes are being swayed as former Nigerian president, Goodluck Jonathan, is being expected to make known his decision on whether to run or not. Many people hold the notion that as was the case with Jonathan in 2011, he has no plan to run but is being arm-twisted or rail-roaded to run by a political enclave with inordinate ambition. Some analysts are, in fact, raising the suspicion that the former president is being encouraged to run by some forces in the North who want to bait the South to have just one term at the presidency for power to shift quickly again to the North. This is considering the fact that Jonathan, having been elected for first term in 2011, could be allowed to run only for just one term more going by the provision of the Nigerian Constitution. This is barring the arguments in the legal circle on whether Jonathan has the right to contest for another term having completed the term of his late principal, Umar Yar’Adua. The aspirants from the South East, top among which are Nnamani, Ngige, Chima and Okorocha are also intensifying efforts to sell their aspirations across other zones. Premising their decisions to run on their resolve to transform the ailing economy, the aspirants said it was high time to give the chance to get to the presidency. While the clamour for the emergence of a candidate from the southern part of the country became rife, Mohammad Al-Amin, a renowned activist, reasoned that what Nigeria needed was a national leader rather than someone with sectional or ethnic interest. He stated that “The delegates should strongly de-emphasise the region or religion of the aspirants and go for the best.” Evidently, Al-Amin said that the nation could not record a landmark gain under the influence of a regional president. He, therefore, advised that the people should identify and give their mandate to a credible presidential candidate who could foster national growth and development. On the stake of the South West in the coming poll, spokesman to Afenifere, Jare Ajayi, said that the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural group would not interfere in the decision of the political parties to choose their standard bearers. A clergyman in the Gethsemane Prayer Ministries, Taiwo Durosaro, in one of his recent sermons emphasized the need for the people to elect patriotic leaders who can save the land from the precipice. He said that some evil people at the corridor of power are scheming to elongate people’s suffering. He, however, prayed that the Lord would abort the evil scheme. Durosaro said “Those who don’t want Nigerians to be free from the oppression of bad leadership are working hard to elongate the suffering of the people. We have had enough. Our situation must change for the better. Watch it, the scheme of the wicked shall turn against them. Those who don’t mean well for the people are buying forms to contest elections, but I pray that they won’t be around to run for the posts. By the time the election is concluded, the country shall be mourning the evil ones.” 