 All may not be well with the Lagos PDP House of Assembly and House of Representatives Primary Elections slated for Sunday as nothing seemed to be happening in all the venues for both primaries. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that some party leaders and governorship aspirants of the party are currently assembling at Ikeja for an emergency meeting over allegations of some people trying to hijack the process. NAN reports that there seems to be tension and apprehension over the non-availability of the electoral committee from the PDP headquarters to conduct the primaries. Speaking on the uncertainty, the Lagos PDP Chairman, Philip Aivoji told NAN that the electoral committees sent to conduct both primaries were nowhere to be found. “As a party man and politician who knows the rule inside out, I went to the state secretariat as early as 7:00 a.m., hoping to receive the Electoral Committee members sent from the headquarters to conduct the primaries and to arrange accommodation for them. “To my surprise, they did not show up. We guess they already have their contacts and I know the number of vehicles that took them to another place entirely. “While I waited for many hours, I reached out to some members and I found out that they were in another hotel. “I went there and accosted them that they should have contacted me as the state chairman to receive them at the state secretariat,” he said. Aivoji said that he was able to move them to the hotel which was prepared for them. He however, said that the electoral committee members expected to conduct the House of Representatives’ primary were not complete, saying only the chairman of the committee and a member were available. According to him, no member of the entire electoral committee who are to conduct the House of Assembly primary is available. “Presently, we cannot understand what is going on, especially why the committee that is to handle the house of assembly cannot be reached. “Up till now, they switched off their phones, we cannot reach them and the time is running out fast,” he said. According to him, the state has some local government areas that will take four or six hours to get to like Badagry, Epe and Ibeju Lekki. “There are so many things shrouded in secrecy and this is not supposed to be. We cannot guarantee the transparency and honesty of these people. “I promised my people that I will be fair to everyone and that there will be equity and justice, now I cannot guarantee it.” Aivoji said that he had told the team leader for the electoral committee for the House of Representatives to call others to address the issues. He, however, called on the party faithful to remain calm, saying the party would address a news conference by 1:00 pm on the way forward and directives. Also speaking, the Lagos PDP Secretary, Soji Orioye told NAN that the electoral committee had absconded for over four to five hours. “Party loyalists are already apprehensive and we don’t want a situation that will degenerate into crises. “We don’t seem to have confidence again in the electoral committees sent from Abuja to conduct this election,” Orioye said. Adio Salami, PDP State Organising Secretary expressed disappointment in the committee, saying the party would not get things right if things were not done properly. NAN reports that some of the party leaders and governorship aspirants sited at the venue include Deji Doherty, Olajide Adediran, Otunba Olanrewaju Jim-Kamal, and party executives among others. There is a heavy presence of security personnel at the venue in Ikeja. NAN reports that 140 aspirants are contesting for the PDP tickets for the 40 seats in the Lagos State House of Assembly and 85 for the 24 House of Representatives’ seats. (NAN) 