 Telecommunication companies are planning to introduce a 40 per cent increase in the cost of calls, SMS, and data. They have made a proposal to the Nigerian Communications Commission premising their decision on the rising cost of running businesses in the land. If their proposal is approved, the call rate would increase from N6.4 to N8.95 while the price of SMS will increase from N4 to N5.61. The indication was given in a letter, written by the telecommunications companies under the aegis of the Association of Licensed Telecommunication Operators of Nigeria to the NCC, titled, ‘Impact of the economic and security issues on the Telecommunications Sector.’ The telecom companies wrote that there had been a 40 per cent increase in the cost of doing business in the nation. They stated that the their businesses were financially affected following the nation’s economic recession in 2020 and the effect of the ongoing Ukraine/Russia crisis. This, the letter stated, had resulted in an increase in energy costs, increasing their operating expenses by 35 per cent. The letter read, “As the commission may be aware, the power sector under the supervision of its Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission in November 2020 undertook a review of electricity tariffs to cater for the economic headwinds reported above. “In view of the foregoing, ALTON considers it expedient for the telecommunications sector to undergo periodic cost adjustments through the commission’s intervention in order to minimise the impact of the challenging economic issues faced by our members. Details are hereunder: “Upward review of the price determination for voice and data and SMS. Given the state of the economy and the circa 40 per cent increase in the cost of doing business, we wish to request for an interim administrative review of the mobile (voice) termination rate for voice; administrative data floor price, and cost of SMS as reflected in extant instruments. “With respect to voice and SMS cost, ALTON respectfully requests the commission to consider a mark-up approach to address the upward price adjustment desirable for the industry. We have enclosed herein and marked as ‘Annexure 1’our proposal in that regard. “For data services, we wish to request that the commission implements the recommendations in the August 2020 KPMG report on the determination of cost-based pricing for wholesale and retail broadband service in Nigeria. Excerpts from the report, are attached and marked ‘Annexure 2’ to provide a further illustration. “In implementing the said recommendations, however, we recommend that the 40 per cent increase in the cost of doing business be factored in to arrive at a cost price per GB in view of the current economic situation.” The body requested an upward adjustment of the MTR by 40 per cent, “For large operators, new interim MTR of N5.46 from N3.90 reflecting 40 per cent increase in the cost of business. “For small operators, new interim MTR of N6.58 from N4.70 reflecting 40 per cent increase in the cost of business.” 