 A Federal High court in Abuja has been urged to declare Godwin Emefiele not fit and proper person to continue to occupy the position of Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria on account of his partisan political Interest. The court was urged to direct President Buhari to remove the incumbent CBN  Governor for breach of the CBN Act , the Public Service Rules and Extant laws. In a suit by Originating  Motion filed on May 9,  2022 by a non Governmental Organisation, Rethink African Foundation and a businessman, Moses Atunba, the claimants sought : * A DECLARATION of this Honourable Court that the  3rd Defendant cannot  continue in office by his association with partisan political  parties  which robs the CBN of the independence  granted by extant Laws . * A DECLARATION of this Honourable Court that Mr.  Godwin Emefiele  is no longer fit  and proper  to continue in office as Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria by his association with partisan political interest. * A DECLARATION of this Honourable Court that the incumbent Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria Mr. Godwin Emefiele who has been openly canvassed and paraded as a contestant for a partisan political office is by this action robbed of public confidence as to his impartiality in discharging the function of his office with respect to currency dealing, monetary policies, financial intermediation to banks and consumers , business enterprises, and the general public. * A DECLARATION of this Honourable Court that by engaging in partisan politics either by himself or through  proxies, friends, or associates by any name called  to the extent of appearing in APC campaign posters,  billboards and campaign vehicles, the incumbent can no longer  impartially continue to act in a professional manner as  adviser to the Government of Nigeria on financial and monetary policies, and as regulator of the financial sector of Nigeria. * A DECLARATION  of this Honourable Court that by the community reading  and  interpretation of Section 9 of the Central Bank of Nigeria (Establishment) Act and Section 66 (1), 107 (f), 137 (1) (g) 142 (2), 182 and 187(2) of the 1999 Constitution  a sitting CBN Governor  is precluded from partisan political interests whilst still in office. * An ORDER of this Honourable Court mandating the 1st defendant to immediately sack  Mr. Emefiele from office  to protect the independence of the CBN. Grounds upon which this reliefs are sought: * That the 1st claimant in this suit is a non- governmental organizations whose members are bona-fide citizens of Nigeria. * That 2nd claimant is a Nigerian citizen and business man who resides in Abuja Nigeria. * That this application is brought in the public interest on a matter concerning the well being , economic management and prosperity of every Nigerian. It is important to grant the reliefs being sought, for the sake of justice, equity and to protect the sanctity of Nigerian  laws, and Constitution. 