…Yerima certain of victory  BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA Presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on Tuesday said he can only support a Presidential candidate of the party that emerges in a free and fair primaries. The former Governor of Lagos stated this in Abuja when he returned his nomination forms through the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Babachir Lawal. He also expressed confidence in actualising his ambition, saying that no aspiration would affect his own aspiration. In another development, the former governor of Zamfara State, Senator Ahmed Sanni Yerima, has expressed confidence that he will emerge as the presidential candidate of the APC. While returning his nomination forms, Yerima said he is happy to have returned his forms in due time. He disclosed that he has no fear or challenge over the primaries, as he believes that it is only God that gives power. “l am not afraid of anybody or anything in this contest. This is not my first time to run for primaries or elections. “I am confident to emerge and if it goes the other way, l will still feel alright since l know that it is God who gives power”. On the withdrawal form attached to the Nomination forms, Yerima said he did not sign the form. He said there was no reason for him to sign the former except he was asked to. Speaking to the media after returning Tinubu’s forms in company of the former Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogora and former PDP govermorship candidate in Borno State, Imam Kashim, Lawal said, “We feel elated that today we have come to submit the winning form and we have complied with one of the major requirements of the party for constesting for presidency on the platform of APC. We have done all that is required. We have submitted all the documents that are required. As you can see we have received our acknowledgement copy and we are confident that victory will be ours on 30th May during the convention.” On the directives of President Muhammadu Buhari to the ministers to resign and the effects it might have on him, he said, “How can it be a threat, the more the merrier. We are democrats and we believe that even if there are one million contestants on the platform of this party, we will carry majority of the delegates at the convention. So, the more the merrier, they are all welcome. “There are no challenges, we are politicians. We have been in this game for many years. Whatever challenges there are, we will convert them to opportunities. Our candidate is a democrat, every politician should not be afraid of election because the probability are two; either you win or lose. So, if we lose at the convention, we will go back home, we will lick our wounds and prepare to support the winner if he wins in a free and fair manner.” 