 The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency has arrested two pregnant women alongside other suspected drug traffickers at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos for attempting to smuggle illicit drugs through the airport. One of the suspects, a Brazilian returnee named Nworie Phillip Chikwendu, was reportedly arrested on Tuesday, May 3, during an inward clearance of passengers on a Qatar Airways flight from Sao Paulo, Brazil en route Doha to Lagos. Two parcels of cocaine were said to have been by her in a pair of brown slippers hidden in his backpack. A statement by the Director of Media and Advocacy of NDLEA, Femi Babafemi, read, “A further search of the pair of black slippers worn by the suspect also led to the recovery of additional two parcels of cocaine built into the soles of his footwear, bringing the total to four parcels weighing 800grams. “When undergoing a preliminary interview, Nworie who claimed to be a barber in Sao Paulo, said he came to Nigeria for the burial of his father. “He confessed he decided to get into the criminal act because his trip was sponsored by his Brazil-based friend who gave him the drug to deliver in Lagos for a fee of N2,000,000.” According to the statement, the following day, NDLEA operatives at the SAHCO export shed of the airport intercepted some cartons of alcoholic drinks suspected to contain illicit drugs. It stated that a freight agent who brought the consignment for export to Dubai, UAE, Shola Ogunrinde, was arrested while a follow-up operation led to the arrest of a pregnant woman, Seun Babatunde, who operates an alcohol joint at Pleasure area of Iyana Ipaja. Seven parcels of cannabis and a sachet of ecstasy drug (MDMA) were concealed inside cans of black bullet alcoholic drinks. “In her confession, Mrs Babatunde claimed that the drugs were being sent to her husband who lives in Dubai,” the statement read. It added that the second pregnant woman, Gloria Asibor, was arrested on Thursday 5th May while attempting to board a Turkish Airline flight to Bolonia, Spain via Istanbul, Turkey. A search of her luggage containing food items led to the discovery of 300 tablets of 200mg and 225mg high dosage Tramadol concealed in crayfish. The Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (retd.), urged the agency’s commands to sustain the heat on drug cartels in a bid to reduce their activities. 