 BY MAYOWA SAMUEL A Christian lady has escaped a mob attack by angry Muslim youths in Katanga, Warji Local Government Area of Bauchi State after she was accused of alleged blasphemy. This is coming barely one week after Deborah Samuel Yakubu was burnt to death in Sokoto, over alleged blasphemy against Prophet Muhammad. Reports said the angry youths launched a search for the lady after the Jummaat prayers but friends and family on receiving information on the impending danger, whisked the girl away to safety. Enraged by their unsuccessful search, the irate youths allegedly started destroying properties belonging to Christians in area. A witness told a news media that some buildings in the area were burnt down and some Christians, including an ECWA church pastor were injured in the attack. A leader of the Christian Association of Nigeria in the state, who confirmed the sad incident, said the Commissioner of Police and the Senior Special Assistant to Governor Bala Mohammed of on Christian Religious Affairs have been informed of the development. He, however, called on the Christian community in the state to remain calm and not to allow the situation to degenerate. The CAN leader said they had to protect themselves from the attackers, assuring that security operatives would do everything possible to protect lives and properties. “We were at home Friday evening, when we heard shouts from Muslim youths in their hundreds wanting to attack the ECWA church, but Christian youths and others resisted and repelled them, but after they had already set the shops attached to the Church on fire. “In the process, one of the pastors of ECWA Church was seriously wounded, as l am speaking to you, efforts are on to save his life as blood is rushing from the wounds inflicted on him”, a source narrated. Another source said, it was one of the youths who recently got converted from Christianity to Islam that allegedly raised the alarm of the alleged blasphemy by the Christian lady and led other Muslim youths in search of her. 