 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A jealous husband, Abduljelil Ibrahim, has landed in trouble for assaulting his neighbour for allegedly making sexual advances to his wife. It was gathered that trouble started when Ibrahim’s wife alleged that their neighbour, Olajide Olamide, made sexual advances towards her at their Aduramigba Street residence in Osogbo, Osun State, while her husband was away from home. Consequently, there was an altercation between Ibrahim and Olamide when the former reportedly confronted his neighbour. About four days after the fight, the defendant allegedly attacked Olamide and inflicted a machete cut on his forehead. The jealous husband was arrested by the police and prosecuted in court after investigation. The 32-year-old Ibrahim was slammed with three-count-charge bordering on membership of unlawful society, attempted murder and breach of peace. The charge against him read that “Abduljelil Ibrahim and others now at large, on April 24, 2022 at about 7:35 pm at Aduramigba Street, off Bolanle area, Osogbo, Osun State, did conspire among yourselves to commit felony to wit attempted murder and unlawful society. “You (defendant) and others now at large, at the same time and place, did with intent to kill, unlawfully inflict machete cuts on the head of one Olajide Olamide. You did conduct yourselves in a manner likely to cause the breach of peace.” According to Police prosecutor, Inspector Elisha Olusegun, the offences are contrary to and punishable under sections 516, 320(1) and 294(d) of the Criminal Code, Cap 34, Volume II, Laws of Osun State, 2002. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges. The defence counsel, Najite Okobe, urged the court to grant his client bail adding that it was a disagreement between neighbours. He said that the accused person had responsible people to stand as sureties for him and that he would not jump bail if granted. The police prosecutor, however, objected to the bail application on the grounds that the defendant was a member of an unlawful society and that the court should take cognizance of the rising activities of cult groups in the state. Olusegun submitted that the defendant also assaulted Olamide’s wife with the couple still in coma at a hospital in Osogbo. He said that if complications set in, Ibrahim would flee and thereby pervert the course of justice. Okobe, however, said that Olamide was known in the neighborhood to be randy and urged the court to discountenance the objection of the prosecutor. He alleged that Olamide was the cause of the fight as he grabbed Ibrahim’s wife from the back after his attempt to lure her into sexual act failed. The counsel prayed for speedy trial of the matter. Chief Magistrate A.A. Adebayo, after seeing a picture of the machete cut being inflicted on the victim, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N500, 000 with two sureties in the same amount. The judge said that one of the sureties must be a landed property owner and that the prosecutor and a court official must verify the addresses of the sureties.
Adebayo adjourned the matter till May 25 for hearing. 