 The Primate of All Nigeria Anglican Communion, Most Rev. Henry Ndukuba, has cautioned politicians against sharp practice during the 2023 elections. Ndukuba gave the advice on Sunday in his address during the 11th Synod of the Anglican Diocese of Abuja. The Primate called for sustained policing of the country’s borders to prevent non Nigerians from infiltrating the country and influencing the 2023 elections. “The foreigner who has no affinity or stake in this country can do any havoc for the financial rewards he stands to gain thereafter. “There is a need, therefore, to guard our national borders against marauders and raiders,” he added. Ndukuba also urged eligible Nigerians to be involved in the political process of the nation, saying politics is a God-given process aimed at providing order to the world and society. “Though some people have hijacked the political processes for their personal agenda, politics is not dirty as it was perceived by some people in the past. “We encourage all citizens to be involved in the political process of our states and nation. “Christians should register with any party of their choice and be involved in the activities of the party from the ward level to the national. “Those who contest for political offices are chosen from the grassroots and ward levels. The Anglican Church must be fully mobilized in the political process throughout this country,” he added. Ndukuba canvassed for constitutional reform to address the myriads of problems in the country. He listed the challenges facing the country as insecurity, weak economy, and political impunity. As a panacea to these fundamental issues, the Anglican Primate said the urgency for constitutional reform in Nigeria cannot be overstated. “The history of this country shows that in the different stages of our development and nationhood, several Constitutions were evolved to guide the country. “While we commend the National Assembly for the efforts at reviewing the present constitution, we are convinced that what we need is a totally new civilian constitution made by a Sovereign Representation of the Nationalities of this country. “This will address the fundamental issues necessary for growing, a united and prosperous nation. “We need a new citizen-made national constitution and not the amendment of a military formulated constitution,” he added. Ndukuba urged political leaders to exercise the necessary will power to return the country to the path of prosperity and peace. He said Nigerians, irrespective of religious or ethnic affiliations, must join hands in the collective action to tackle these issues. “Our people have lost their homes, livelihood, lives and property. Parts of this country are in the hands of different warlords, and State Governors are incapacitated and unable to secure their states from the insurgents and the Federal Government also seems to be overwhelmed,” he said. The Anglican Primate also expressed concern about Nigeria’s debt profile, saying that servicing the loans was unsustainable. “The current trend of increased borrowing from other countries and international bodies to fund our National Budget is becoming worrisome. “The country’s rising public debt profile remains of great concern as about 95 per cent of our revenue goes to debt-servicing. This is unsustainable. “In addition, it greatly limits expenditures for other critical sectors of the economy, thus hampering growth and development.” He cautioned against further borrowing and said the funds borrowed must not be allowed “end up in individual or party purses for campaigns”. “We strongly caution against further borrowing and urge the government to hearken to advice to seek for alternative, more viable and efficient infrastructure-financing sources to ease our expenditure burden.” He challenged government to show greater political will toward rehabilitating the country’s moribund refineries, to reduce the local cost of petrol, diesel and kerosene. According to him, the intervention will stop the importation of the products and the drain on Nigeria’s foreign reserve. The synod which began on Thursday ends on Sunday. (NAN) 