 The Oyo State Government has warned the Park Management System members to adhere strictly with the standard operating procedures in order to evade sanctions. Sunday Odukoya, Executive Assistant to Governor Seyi Makinde on Security, gave the warning on Sunday in Ibadan, the state capital at a meeting. Odukoya said that the meeting became necessary due to complaints by members of the public on the excesses of the PMS members. He said that the Makinde administration was prompted to inaugurate the PMS due to the unhealthy rivalry in the transport sector on assumption of office in 2019. Odukoya said, “It has, however, been observed that the conduct of some misguided PMS members have not only been reckless, but apparently reputed with unsavoury tide. “No member of the PMS has the right to take laws into his/her hands. “All members of the PMS must wear a human face while discharging their duties and be civil to members of the public. Work collaboratively with members of all security agencies and other local security networks. “No members of PMS must drive recklessly and negligently whether on duty or otherwise. No PMS members must drink any form of liquor, smoke or taking substances while on duty. “No PMS members must hold canes, sticks or rods while on duty, but must be as civil as possible and ensure that commuters’ rights are well protected. “All PMS members must, henceforth desist from wearing vests or head gears with unauthorised inscriptions, but wear only those prescribed by Oyo State Government.” The Executive Assistant added that the state government would create data points throughout the state for all PMS members to be properly registered. He added, “Feedback points and phone numbers shall be created throughout the state. “All violators of any of the above standard operating procedure will be dealt with decisively.” In his response, the Chairman, PMS Disciplinary Committee, Mukaila Lamidi, also known as Auxiliary, assured that his members would abide by the operating procedures as instructed by the state government. 