Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State has said that the All Progressives Congress members from Owerri zone are key to the survival of the party in Imo. He also said the members have the advantage of coming from a zone that could be described as cosmopolitan and housing people who are blessed with intellect and other gifts needed to make the APC a Party of choice for everyone in Imo. The Governor spoke on Wednesday when APC members from Owerri zone held a reception in honour of one of their own who happens to be the State Chairman of the Party, MacDonald Ebere at Imo Concord Hotel Owerri. Addressing the guests at the ceremony in his capacity as the leader of the party in the State, Governor Uzodimma expressed excitement and gladness over the honour done to the State Chairman. He explained that “APC in Imo State has grown and become acceptable to the citizens of the State because it encourages and promotes the interest of the people.” Governor Uzodimma described Owerri zone as the headquarters of APC in Imo State and harbouring the caliber of people such as those who converged together to receive Ebere because of their belief and desire to promote the philosophy of the party. The Governor said: “One thing very strategic is that if APC succeeds it will start from Owerri zone, and if it fails it will be blamed on Owerri zone.” On the ceremony and those who attended, Governor Uzodimma said  “everyone here has come to join the people of Owerri Zone to support and promote the Party,” adding that from  what he saw he was convinced that the zone will justify the confidence reposed on them. He assured that under Ebere as APC Chairman in Imo State the Party will be stronger and the Party to beat in any election. He therefore charged his members to show the difference between the APC and other parties. The Governor assured that under the new leadership, APC in Imo State will be run in a more efficient and effective way that will be result-oriented, where power will be taken back to the people. He reiterated his earlier stand on the forthcoming general elections emphasizing that “the decision to contest election is between one and his God.” On insecurity, he reiterated that it is the opposition who are killing the APC members in the State under the guise of IPOB and unknown gunmen, promising that “soon the people who are killing the innocent citizens will be made known and they will face the full weight of the law.” He then called on all to help and fight insecurity as government cannot do it alone. In his remark, Ebere thanked God for using the Governor to facilitate his emergence as the Chairman of the ruling party in Imo State, promising not to disappoint the expectations of the Governor, APC and his people from Owerri Zone. “I will be for all and therefore the least for all.” He expressed gratitude to the organizers from his Owerri zone, the Governor and the Party for accepting his person and expressed his willingness and readiness to serve. In his goodwill message, the Deputy Governor of Imo State, Placid Njoku thanked the Governor and the Party for giving Owerri zone the opportunity of producing the APC chairman in the State and expressed happiness of his people on the developmental strides on infrastructure and human resources in Owerri zone. The Chairman of the occasion, Sir George Eche thanked all that graced the occasion,  especially the Governor and described the celebrant as somebody favoured by God at this time to bear the cross of moving APC forward from where it is today. In the welcome address read by the Chairman of the Central Planning Committee, Barr. Tony Umezuruike, he thanked all that attended the ceremony, especially the Governor for his love for Owerri zone and promised that they will continue to support and be loyal to his administration in the state. He assured him that Ebere will not disappoint the expectations of the Governor and the Party in the State. The ceremony was well attended by both APC and Operational Leaders of Owerri and other zones of the state. 