 The All Progressives Congress has barred aspirants for its presidential, governorship and parliamentary primaries from suing the party without having exhausted avenues for redress and ventilation of grievances. The aspirants are to sign undertakings to accept the outcomes of the primaries and support those who emerge as candidates for the general elections. The APC, in addition, directed aspirants to take oaths that they would not engage in thuggery, anti-party activities or create parallel congresses and party organs at any level. The nine guidelines for the conduct of presidential, governorship and parliamentary primaries are contained on page 17 of the nomination form given to the aspirants. Some aspirants, however questioned the ‘voluntary letter of withdrawal,’ to be addressed to the National Chairman of APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, which they are expected to sign before a Commissioner for Oaths or a Notary Public. According to them, this may lead to imposition of a presidential candidate or abuse of the consensus clause in the Electoral Act 2022. In respect of this, aspirants are said to be seeking legal advice on Page 18 of the nomination form considering its implications. The APC leadership insisted that the conditions were in line with Article 21. 2 (i — xii) of the APC Constitution. The conditions read, “Abide to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the APC and the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Abide by the Primary election guidelines of APC and Nigerian Electoral Act. “Abide to place APC above selfish interests, “I, my primary campaign organisation and my supporters undertake to accept the outcome of the primary and support whoever emerges as APC candidate for the general election. “Abide not to engage in dishonest practices, thuggery, being absent from meetings to which he/she is invited without reasonable cause; carrying out anti-party activities which tend to disrupt the peaceful, lawful and efficient organisation of the party or which are inconsistent with the aims and objectives of the party. “Abide not to give wrong information to any organ of the party or unauthorised publicity of a party dispute without exhausting all avenues or settlement or redress within the party. “Abide not to file any action in a court of law against the party or any of its officers on any matters relating to the discharge of the duties of the party without first exhausting all avenues for redress provided. “Abide to always follow the path of justice, honesty and unity amongst fellow contestants and party members. So help me God. “Abide not to factionalise or create a parallel congress, election, or party organ at any level.” The letter of withdrawal titled, ‘Letter of Voluntary Withdrawal, reads, “I…of the above address…vying for…hereby voluntarily withdraw my candidacy from the contest…scheduled to hold on…2023. My withdrawal is in the best interest of our great party, the APC.” 